date_published=9:50 PM GMT, July 7, 2023
published_by=MATT O’BRIEN and WYATTE GRANTHAM-PHILIPS
title=Clone or competitor? Users and lawyers compare Twitter and Threads
body=Just how similar is Instagram’s chatty new app, Threads, to Twitter?
In a cease-and-desist letter earlier this week, Twitter threatened legal action against Instagram parent company Meta over the new text-based app Threads, which it called a “copycat.”
Threads has drawn tens of millions of users since launching as the latest rival to Elon Musk’s social media platform. 
Threads creators pushed back on the accusations, and legal experts note that much is still unknown. For now, “it’s sort of a big question mark,” Jacob Noti-Victor, an associate professor at Yeshiva University’s Cardozo Law School who specializes in intellectual property, told The Associated Press.
The people starting to explore Threads, however, are already making their own observations.
“People are calling it a Twitter clone but I think there are some key product differences,” said Alexandra Popken, Twitter’s former head of trust and safety operations.
One difference, she thinks, will likely be the people who use it. At Threads, “you’re essentially taking your audience from Instagram and putting this into a new text-based app, whereas Twitter is a kind of a niche audience for politicians, celebrities and news junkies,” she said.
Yet even though Threads makers have said they aren’t particularly interested in making it a politics forum, it’s likely to attract journalists and politicians, among others, looking for a Twitter alternative.
Instagram’s CEO, Adam Mosseri, said Threads isn’t aiming to replace Twitter.
“The goal is to create a public square for communities on Instagram that never really embraced Twitter and for communities on Twitter (and other platforms) that are interested in a less angry place for conversations, but not all of Twitter,” he said.
Politics and hard news will inevitably show up on Threads, he acknowledged, “but we’re not going to do anything to encourage those verticals.”
In a Wednesday letter addressed to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Alex Spiro, an attorney representing Twitter, accused Meta of unlawfully using Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property by hiring former Twitter employees to create a “copycat” app.
In a reply to a tweet about the possibility of legal action against Meta, Musk wrote: “Competition is fine, cheating is not.”
Meta spokesperson Andy Stone responded in a Threads post Thursday that “no one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee.”
From Spiro’s letter, which was first obtained by news outlet Semafor on Thursday, Noti-Victor said it’s hard to tell what the trade secrets referred to might be.
Spiro says ex-Twitter employees “improperly retained” company documents and electronic devices — pointing to ongoing confidentiality obligations. There was no explicit reference, however, to a breach of any binding agreement in the letter, and most noncompete clauses, for example, are prohibited in California.
In addition, despite Threads’ similarities to Twitter, “just the idea of creating a social media platform involving text (is) certainly not something that would be a trade secret,” Noti-Victor added.
He is skeptical of intellectual property violations for similar reasons, noting that companies “can’t patent something that’s obvious” or copyright a general idea for a social media platform. Copyright can protect source code and the text of a website, but Noti-Victor said he doesn’t see that reproduced in Threads.
Experts add that companies in Silicon Valley are constantly making products or services inspired by competitors’ versions.
“The industry has a storied past of borrowing ideas from each other,” said Popken, adding that Threads and other platforms such as Mastodon and Bluesky are “trying to capitalize on what is demand for a suitable, safer alternative to Twitter.”
Meta has a track record of starting standalone apps that mirror competitors, although many later shut down.
Beyond trade secret and intellectual property allegations, Spiro also wrote that Meta is prohibited from “engaging in any crawling or scraping of Twitter’s followers or following data.” He said the letter marked a “formal notice” for Meta to preserve documents relevant for a potential dispute between the companies.
Any letter of this kind should be taken seriously, said Carl Tobias, law professor at the University of Richmond’s School of Law — but he, too, added that much is still unknown. More specific allegations and documents could come forward if litigation is pursued.
Tobias speculated that Twitter’s move could be partly about publicity, as well as a strategic response both legally and business-wise. Musk’s legal team has made similar moves before, such as a May letter to Microsoft objecting to alleged misuse of Twitter data to train artificial intelligence systems.
Among those elevating the clone-or-not question this week was Twitter co-founder and former CEO Jack Dorsey, who has championed Bluesky, and joked in a tweet: “We wanted flying cars, instead we got 7 Twitter clones.”
For Popken, who now works at content moderation startup WebPurify, what most stands out about Threads so far is how much fun she’s having using it.
“I see brands like Slim Jim trying to be funny. I see influencers who I follow on Instagram and people who I care about in my life,” she said. “There’s like this period of time where the bad actors haven’t found it yet. It’s like this non-toxic, happy corner of the internet.”
But “make no mistake,” she added, those content moderation problems that have plagued other platforms “will certainly strike Threads over time.”
date_published=4:19 PM GMT, July 3, 2023
published_by=MATT O’BRIEN
title=Elon Musk put new limits on tweets. Users and advertisers might go elsewhere
body=TikTok and Instagram users can scroll with abandon. But Twitter owner Elon Musk has put new curfews on his digital town square, the latest drastic change to the social media platform that could further drive away advertisers and undermine its cultural influence as a trendsetter.
Keeping up with a sports game, extreme weather conditions or a major news event is getting harder under Musk’s new rules, which cap the number of tweets you can view as part of an apparent attempt to relieve the company’s overloaded web infrastructure.
“The joke on Twitter is that people are going to go outside instead, but the reality is that they’re going to go to another app,” said Jasmine Enberg, an analyst with Insider Intelligence. “By sending users elsewhere, Musk is killing the main proposition Twitter has had for advertisers — a highly engaged user base, especially around news and events.”
Musk recently hired longtime NBC Universal executive Linda Yaccarino as Twitter’s CEO to try to win back advertisers annoyed by a host of changes since Musk bought the platform for $44 billion last year. But she’s been silent about the new restrictions that lock users out if they view too many tweets in a day, leaving Musk to announce and explain them.
The moves are “remarkably bad for Twitter’s users and advertisers,” decimating the reach and engagement that advertisers depend on, according to a statement from Forrester analyst Mike Proulx.
“The advertiser trust deficit that Linda Yaccarino needs to reverse just got even bigger. And it cannot be reversed based on her industry credibility alone,” Proulx said.
An Associated Press inquiry on Monday about how long the limits will last triggered a crude automated reply that Twitter sends to most media queries without addressing the question.
Musk had tried on Saturday to describe how the limits work, saying accounts that don’t pay for a monthly subscription will temporarily be restricted to reading 600 posts per day, while verified accounts will be able to scroll through up to 6,000.
After facing backlash, he tweeted that the thresholds would be raised to 800 posts for unverified accounts and 8,000 for verified accounts before later settling on 1,000 and 10,000 tweets, respectively.
Many unverified users are “going to hit that limit fast,” said Enberg, because most Twitter users are consuming, not creating posts, and “typically scroll through an enormous number of tweets in a short period of time.”
Enberg said Musk should be doing whatever he can to encourage engagement to show Twitter is still viable as it faces growing competition from upstart rivals, as well as a new Twitter-like service coming from Facebook and Instagram parent Meta. “Instead, he’s throttling it,” she said.
Proulx, of Forrester, said the “real reason behind Musk’s temporary rate limits” is still unclear.
Musk over the weekend explained the new restrictions as an attempt to prevent unauthorized scraping of potentially valuable data from the social media platform. He said it was a temporary measure that was taken because “we were getting data pillaged so much that it was degrading service for normal users!”
The site is now requiring people to log on to view tweets and profiles — a change in its longtime practice to allow everyone to peruse the chatter on what Musk has frequently touted as the world’s digital town square.
Musk has pushed back on what he calls misuse of Twitter data to train popular artificial intelligence systems like ChatGPT. They scour reams of information online to generate human-like text, photos, video and other content.
The higher tweet-viewing threshold allowed on verified accounts is part of an $8-per-month subscription service that Musk rolled out earlier this year in an effort to boost Twitter revenue. It has fallen sharply since the billionaire Tesla CEO took over the company and laid off roughly three-fourths of the workforce to cut costs and stave off bankruptcy.
Advertisers have since curbed their spending on Twitter, partly because of changes that have allowed more hateful or prickly content that offends a wider part of the service’s audience.
date_published=11:00 PM GMT, July 5, 2023
published_by=KELVIN CHAN
title=Meta’s new Twitter rival app Threads gets tens of millions of sign-ups in its first day
body=Tens of millions of people have quickly signed up to Meta’s new app, Threads, as it aims to compete with Twitter — a sign that users are looking for an alternative to the social media platform that has undergone a series of unpopular changes since Elon Musk bought it.
Meta Platforms’ CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Thursday that 30 million people had registered for the app, including 10 million in the first seven hours of its launch Wednesday in the U.S. and over 100 other countries, including Britain, Australia, Canada and Japan.
Threads is billed as a text-based version of Meta’s photo-sharing app Instagram that the company says provides “a new, separate space for real-time updates and public conversations.” 
Instagram users can log in with their existing usernames and follow the same accounts on the new app, giving Threads users a ready-made audience and an edge over other Twitter challengers like Bluesky and Mastodon.
“I think I’ll just see — I’ll keep Twitter for a while and then if everyone moves over there (to Threads), then I’ll probably move,” said Javi de Andreas, a 24-year-old researcher in London.
He added that Instagram “feels like a bit more reliable just in terms of nothing really changes.”
There was plenty of excitement among Threads users about the opportunity to make a fresh start on a new social media app, giving Threads a “first day of school” vibe.
Early adopters included celebrities like chef Gordon Ramsay, pop star Shakira and actor Jack Black as well as Airbnb, Guinness World Records, Netflix, Vogue magazine and other media outlets.
There were also glitches, annoyance about the lack of a chronological feed and gripes about missing features — raising the question of whether the initial burst of interest would lead to sustained growth that could pose a meaningful challenge to Twitter.
“The euphoria around a new service and this initial explosion will probably settle down,” said Paolo Pescatore, a technology analyst at PP Foresight. “But it is apparent that this alternative is here to stay and will prove to be a worthy rival given all of Twitter’s woes.”
Teething problems for Threads include Zuckerberg’s posts — or Threads as they’re dubbed — not loading in several countries. But his replies to other users did appear.
Instagram CEO Adam Mosseri acknowledged the early issues. 
“The real test is not if we can build up a lot of hype, but if you all find enough value in the app to keep using it ove time,” Mosseri posted in a thread.
“And there are tons of basics that are missing: search, hashtags, a following feed” and direct messaging, he said. “We’re on it,” but ”it’ll take time.”
Threads does have buttons to like, repost, reply to or quote a thread, and users see the number of likes and replies a post has received. Posts are limited to 500 characters, which is more than Twitter’s 280-character threshold for most users, and can include links, photos and videos up to five minutes long.
Some questioned whether it made sense to seek to combine Twitter and Instagram users, which are two distinct online groups. Twitter is tailored for quick and short updates, while Instagram is best for visually creative posts.
“Some people will want to keep it separate from Instagram for numerous and very good reasons,” Pescatore said. “This is something that Meta might have to address, which could halt its progress.”
Meta’s new offering also has raised data privacy concerns. The company has held off on rolling it out in the European Union, citing regulatory uncertainty.
The 27-nation EU has strict data privacy rules and is set to start enforcing a new set of digital rules aimed at clamping down on Big Tech companies and limiting what they can do with users’ personal information.
Threads could collect a wide range of personal information, including health, financial, contacts, browsing and search history, location data, purchases and “sensitive info,” according to its data privacy disclosure on the App Store.
Threads poses a fresh headache for Musk, who acquired Twitter last year for $44 billion. Analysts said combining Twitter-style features with Instagram’s look and feel would drive user engagement.
Musk has made a series of changes that have triggered backlash, the latest being daily limits on the number of tweets people can view to try to stop unauthorized scraping of potentially valuable data.
date_published=10:21 AM GMT, July 4, 2023
published_by=KELVIN CHAN
title=Meta looks to target Twitter with a rival app called Threads
body=LONDON (AP) — Meta is poised to unveil a new app that appears to mimic Twitter — a direct challenge to the social media platform owned by Elon Musk.
A listing for the app, called Threads, appeared on Apple’s App Store, indicating it would debut as early as Thursday. It is billed as a “text-based conversation app” that is linked to Instagram, with the listing teasing a Twitter-like microblogging experience.
“Threads is where communities come together to discuss everything from the topics you care about today to what’ll be trending tomorrow,” it said.
Instagram users will be able to keep their user names and follow the same accounts on the new app, according to screenshots displayed on the App Store listing. Meta declined to comment on the app. 
Musk replied “yeah” to a tweet from Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey saying, “All your Threads are belong to us,” along with a screenshot from the App Store’s privacy section showing what personal information might be collected by the new Meta app.
Threads could be the latest headache for Musk, who acquired Twitter last year for $44 billion and has been making changes that have unnerved advertisers and turned off users, including new daily limits on the number of tweets people can view.
Meta has good timing because Twitter users are growing frustrated with Musk’s changes and looking for a viable alternative, said Matt Navarra, a social media consultant.
Threads presents the “opportunity to jump to a platform that can give them many of the things that they want Twitter to continue to be that it no longer is,” he said.
Allowing Instagram users to port their profile to Threads could give the new app more traction with potential users by providing a ready-made set of accounts for them to follow, said Navarra, former director of social media at tech news site The Next Web and digital communications adviser for the British government.
Twitter has rolled out a series of unpopular changes in recent days, including a requirement for users to be verified to use the online dashboard TweetDeck. The policy announced Monday takes effect in 30 days and appears to be aimed at raising extra revenue because users need to pay have their accounts verified under Musk’s changes.
TweetDeck is popular with companies and news organizations, allowing users to manage multiple Twitter accounts.
It comes after outcry over Musk’s announcement this weekend that Twitter has limited the number of tweets users can view each day — restrictions that the billionaire Tesla CEO described as an attempt to stop unauthorized scraping of potentially valuable data.
Still, some users might be put off by Meta’s data privacy track record, Navarra said. And would-be Twitter challengers like Mastodon have found it a challenge to sign up users.
“It’s hard to tell whether the upset and discontent is strong enough to make a mass exodus or whether it will be somewhat of a slow erosion,” Navarra said.
Musk’s rivalry with Meta Platforms also could end up spilling over into real life. In an online exchange between Musk and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, the two tech billionaires seemingly agreed to a cage match face-off, though it’s unclear if they will actually make it to the ring.
date_published=9:56 AM GMT, July 24, 2023
published_by=KELVIN CHAN and BARBARA ORTUTAY
title=Elon Musk reveals new ‘X’ logo to replace Twitter’s blue bird
body=Goodbye, Twitter. Hello, X.
Elon Musk has unveiled a new “X” logo to replace Twitter’s famous blue bird as he follows through with a major rebranding of the social media platform he bought for $44 billion last year.
The X started appearing at the top of the desktop version of Twitter on Monday, but the bird was still dominant across the smartphone app. At Twitter’s headquarters in San Francisco, meanwhile, workers were seen removing the iconic bird and logo Monday until police showed up and stopped them because they didn’t have the proper permits and didn’t tape off the sidewalk to keep pedestrians safe if anything fell.
As of early afternoon, the “er” at the end of Twitter remained visible.
The haphazard erasure of both the physical and virtual remnants of Twitter’s past were in many ways typical of the chaotic way Musk has run the company since his reluctant purchase.
“It’s the end of an era, and a clear signal that the Twitter of the past 17 years is gone and not coming back,” said Jasmine Enberg, an analyst with Insider Intelligence. “But the writing was on the wall: Musk has been vocal about transforming Twitter into platform X from the start, and Twitter was already a shell of its former self.”
It’s yet another change that Musk has made since acquiring Twitter that has alienated users and turned off advertisers, leaving the microblogging site vulnerable to new threats, including rival Meta’s new text-based app Threads that directly targets Twitter users.
Musk had asked fans for logo ideas and chose one, which he described as minimalist Art Deco, saying it “certainly will be refined.” He replaced his own Twitter icon with a white X on a black background and posted a picture of the design projected on Twitter’s San Francisco headquarters.
“And soon we shall bid adieu to the twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds,” Musk tweeted Sunday.
The X.com web domain now redirects users to Twitter.com, Musk said.
“I can’t say I’m surprised, but I think it’s a very selfish decision,” said Hannah Thoreson of Baltimore, Maryland, who’s used Twitter since 2009 for work and personal posts. 
“There are so many small businesses and so many nonprofits and so many government agencies and things like that all around the world that have relied on Twitter for many years to push their message and reach people,” she said. “And they all have the Twitter icon on everything from their website to their business cards.”
Changing all this costs time and money, she added, not to mention the confusion that comes with a previously unknown brand name.
“I mean, do you want to get rid of the Coca-Cola brand if you’re Coca-Cola? Why would you do that?” said Thoreson, who now primarily uses Mastodon.
Musk, CEO of Tesla, has long been fascinated with the letter X and had already renamed Twitter’s corporate name to X Corp. after he bought it in October. In response to questions about what tweets would be called when the rebranding is done, Musk said they would be called Xs.
The billionaire is also CEO of rocket company Space Exploration Technologies Corp., commonly known as SpaceX. And he started an artificial intelligence company this month called xAI to compete with ChatGPT. In 1999, he founded a startup called X.com, an online financial services company now known as PayPal.
Additionally, he calls one of his sons, whose mother is singer Grimes, “X.” The child’s actual name is a collection of letters and symbols.
Musk’s Twitter purchase and rebranding are part of his strategy to create what he’s dubbed an “ everything app ” similar to China’s WeChat, which combines video chats, messaging, streaming and payments. Musk has made a number of drastic changes since taking over Twitter, including a shift to focusing on paid subscriptions, but he doesn’t always follow through on his attention-grabbing new policy pronouncements.
Linda Yaccarino, the longtime NBC Universal executive Musk tapped to be Twitter CEO in May, posted the new logo and weighed in on the change, writing on Twitter that X would be “the future state of unlimited interactivity — centered in audio, video, messaging, payments/banking — creating a global marketplace for ideas, goods, services, and opportunities.”
But ad industry analysts were less certain about X’s prospects.
“Musk supporters will likely celebrate the rebrand, but it’s a gloomy day for many Twitter users and advertisers,” Enberg said. “Twitter’s corporate brand is already heavily intertwined with Musk’s personal brand, with or without the name X, and much of Twitter’s established brand equity has already been lost among users and advertisers.”
Some predicted the new name will confuse much of Twitter’s audience, which has already been souring on the social media platform following Musk’s other modifications, including limiting the number of tweets users can read each day. The new threshold is part of an $8-per-month subscription service Musk rolled out earlier this year in an attempt to boost Twitter revenue.
Whether advertisers will ever return depends on how successful the rebranding is and whether Musk is able to accomplish his goal of creating an “everything app.” That remains to be seen, said ad expert Mark DiMassimo.
“Advertisers care about what they’re buying. So if his strategies work, I don’t think advertisers could care less about what he calls it,” DiMassimo said.
“I think changing the name is just a way for him to say, ‘Stop having Twitter expectations, this is a new thing, judge it as a new thing,’” he added. “And you know, that only works if the new thing works.”
Twitter users also pointed out that few people refer to Alphabet, Google’s parent company since 2015. Facebook renamed itself Meta in 2021, but its collection of apps — Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook — still retain their own brands and logos.
Twitter’s recognizable blue bird logo went live more than a decade ago in 2012, replacing an earlier bird logo ahead of the company’s Wall Street debut as a publicly traded company.
“I’m sad to see it go. It had a great run,” said the logo’s designer, Martin Grasser. “But 11 years, 12 years is really long for a corporate identity to stick around. It feels like the platform is changing and they have a new direction and it makes sense” that they would pick a new logo to signal those changes.
date_published=8:09 PM GMT, July 10, 2023
published_by=HALELUYA HADERO
title=Reluctant Twitter users, influencers and others are flocking to Meta’s new Threads app
body=NEW YORK (AP) — Celebrities, lawmakers, brands and everyday social media users are flocking to Meta’s freshly minted app Threads to connect with their followers, including many Twitter refugees tired of the drama surrounding Elon Musk’s raucous oversight of that platform.
But the real question is: Will they stay?
Instagram head Adam Mosseri said in a Threads post Monday that in the five days since its launch, 100 million people have signed up for Threads, which was rolled out as a companion app to Instagram. 
Ann Coleman is among them. The 50-year-old, who lives in Baltimore, said she joined Threads after hearing about the platform from a comedian she follows on social media. She said she loves Twitter and has been using it for more than 10 years. She even met her husband on there. 
But Coleman, who is politically progressive, has been looking to switch to a new platform because of Musk’s political views and changes he’s made to Twitter, like upending its verification system. She previously joined the decentralized social network Mastodon, but found it a bit confusing to use.
She said she likes Threads but wishes she could easily follow all her Twitter friends there. Threads gives Instagram users the option to automatically follow the same accounts they do on the photo-sharing app, which makes it easier for active Instagram users to replicate a similar type of engagement on Threads. But others starting from the ground up will have to do more work.
“If I’m going to leave Twitter entirely, I’m going to have to try and find some of these people” from Twitter, Coleman said.
While she said she has her own concerns about Meta — specifically pointing to the Cambridge Analytica privacy breach, among other things — “it’s not with the depth of concern that I do with Musk.”
Michael Evancoe, 28, said he hasn’t used Twitter much since his personal page was suspended years ago for what the platform attributed to violations of its rules on spam. Evancoe, who now works in production, said he agrees with some of the changes Musk has been making on Twitter and he created a new account earlier this year. But he wasn’t able to gain many followers or interactions.
He joined Threads last week, and says he’s been able to interact more with other users. But he hopes that Meta does not moderate the platform overly aggressively.
“I think that would be a deterrent to both interest and engagement as well,” Evancoe said.
For its part, Meta has said it will moderate using Instagram’s content guidelines. In the past few days, the company has been positioning the much-hyped platform as a new digital town square that’s a less toxic version of Twitter, with some executives indicating their aim isn’t to replace Twitter but to offer something more palatable to a vast array of users.
“The goal is to create a public square for communities on Instagram that never really embraced Twitter and for communities on Twitter (and other platforms) that are interested in a less angry place for conversations,” Mosseri said Friday.
In the first two full days that Threads was broadly available — Thursday and Friday of last week — traffic on Twitter was down 5% compared with the same period a week ago, and down 11% compared with the same period a year ago, according to the web analytics company SimilarWeb. But it also said Twitter traffic has experienced an overall decline even in the absence of Threads.
To Jennifer Billinson, a professor of media studies at Nazareth University in New York, the first days of Threads have highlighted a potential culture clash -- specifically one between Twitter refugees and what is likely a much larger number of people just clicking over from Instagram.
The idea that Threads will just become a Twitter clone, she says, is running headlong into the reality that the Twitterites are going to be “vastly outnumbered” on the new platform by those from Instagram, which has more than 2 billion monthly users. By comparison, Twitter has more than 237 million daily users, according to the most recent figures from the company’s earnings report last year.
Among other things, those used to the more abrasive culture of Twitter could easily annoy more laid-back Instagram users. Of course, such tensions might be alleviated by potential platform changes that give people more control over what they’ll see in their Threads feed. At the moment, users are largely at the mercy of the Threads algorithm.
Despite the influx of users, Brendan Gahan, partner and chief social officer at the creative agency Mekanism, stressed it’s too early to know how successful Threads will be. He further questions whether the rapid growth of Threads is even a good thing, pointing out some other successful platforms began with a focused approach and expanded more gradually.
There’s also the question of how influencers will use Threads and whether they can replicate the same following as on other platforms. Most notably, Jimmy Donaldson — a popular YouTube video maker who goes by MrBeast — has already amassed more than 4 million followers on Threads.
By integrating the new app to Instagram, Meta made it very easy for content creators to convert their Instagram followers to Threads followers. But that can also create a situation where popular content creators gain more influence while crowding out emerging talents from cultivating their own culture on a new platform, Gahan said.
Creators might also face other challenges.
“Somebody who is purely video and photo-based may have trouble translating to a text-focused platform,” Gahan said. “That said, a lot of them I see reposting the same content. Time will tell whether or not that’s a successful strategy.”
Asante Madrigal, a content creator who makes his living off of social media posts about pop culture, said he’s been trying out the Threads app and reposting some videos he’s made recently on actress Keke Palmer, among other things. 
But at least for now, the 22-year-old said he doesn’t plan to make Threads a priority because he can’t monetize his content on there. Instead, he said he’s going to focus on apps where he’s actually earning money, like Instagram, YouTube and TikTok, where he more than 2 million followers combined.
Madrigal said the Threads algorithm is a black box, and pointed to some things that are still lacking in the app, including hashtags and direct messaging between users. And figuring out what to do on there will take more work.
“I have a lot of friends that do pop culture as well,” Madrigal said. “And they were just like, ‘Oh, my God, not another app’.”
date_published=11:35 PM GMT, July 15, 2023
published_by=The Associated Press
title=Musk says Twitter is losing cash because advertising is down and the company is carrying heavy debt
body=Elon Musk says Twitter is still losing cash because advertising has dropped by half.
In a reply to a tweet offering business advice, Musk tweeted Saturday, “We’re still negative cash flow, due to (about a) 50% drop in advertising revenue plus heavy debt load.”
“Need to reach positive cash flow before we have the luxury of anything else,” he concluded.
Ever since he took over Twitter in a $44 billion deal last fall, Musk has tried to reassure advertisers who were concerned about the ouster of top executives, widespread layoffs and a different approach to content moderation. Some high-profile users who had been banned were allowed back on the site.
In April, Musk said most of the advertisers who left had returned and that the company might become cash-flow positive in the second quarter.
In May, he hired a new CEO, Linda Yaccarino, an NBCUniversal executive with deep ties to the advertising industry.
But since then, Twitter has upset some users by imposing new limits on how many tweets they can view in a day, and some users complained that they were locked out of the site. Musk said the restrictions were needed to prevent unauthorized scraping of potentially valuable data.
Twitter got a new competitor this month when Facebook owner Meta launched a text-focused app, Threads, and gained tens of millions of sign-ups in a few days. Twitter responded by threatening legal action. 
date_published=8:46 PM GMT, July 6, 2023
published_by=The Associated Press
title=Twitter threatens legal action against Meta over its new rival app Threads
body=NEW YORK (AP) — Twitter has threatened legal action against Meta over its new text-based app called Threads, which has drawn tens of millions of users since launching this week as a rival to Elon Musk’s social media platform.
In a letter Wednesday to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Alex Spiro, an attorney representing Twitter, accused Meta of unlawfully using Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property by hiring former Twitter employees to create a “copycat” app.
The move ramps up the tensions between the social media giants after Threads debuted Wednesday, targeting those who are seeking out alternatives to Twitter amid unpopular changes Musk has made to the platform since buying it last year for $44 billion.
Meta spokesperson Andy Stone wrote Thursday on Threads: “No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee — that’s just not a thing.”
In the letter, which news website Semafor first reported Thursday, Spiro said Twitter “intends to strictly enforce its intellectual property rights” and noted the company’s right to seek civil remedies or a court injunction.
He said the letter marked a “formal notice” for Meta to preserve documents relevant for a potential dispute between the companies.
In a reply to a tweet about the possibility of legal action against Meta, Musk wrote: “Competition is fine, cheating is not.”
The Associated Press reached out to Spiro on Thursday for further information. Twitter responded to an email seeking comment with a crude automated reply, its standard response to journalists.
New Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino has not publicly commented on the letter but appeared to address Threads’ launch.
“We’re often imitated — but the Twitter community can never be duplicated,” Yaccarino tweeted.
Some analysts say Meta’s new offering, billed as a text-based version of the photo-sharing app Instagram, could be a significant headache for Twitter — pointing to the excitement surrounding Threads’ launch and impressive download numbers so far.
But success isn’t guaranteed. Industry watchers point to Meta’s track record of starting standalone apps that were later shut down and note that Threads is still in its early days.
Besides some glitches and gripes about missing features, Meta’s new app also has raised data privacy concerns. While Threads launched in more than 100 countries, it is notably unavailable in the European Union, which has strict data privacy rules.
date_published=11:43 AM GMT, July 23, 2023
published_by=ANNE D’INNOCENZIO
title=Musk says Twitter to change logo to “X” from the bird. Changes could come as early as Monday.
body=NEW YORK (AP) — Elon Musk said Sunday that he plans to change the logo of Twitter to an “X” from the famous blue bird, marking what would be the latest big change since he bought the social media platform for $44 billion last year.
In a series of posts on his Twitter account starting just after 12 a.m. ET, Twitter’s owner said that he’s looking to make the change worldwide as soon as Monday.
“And soon we shall bid adieu to the twitter brand and, gradually, all the birds,” Musk wrote on his account.
The change isn’t surprising given Musk’s long history with the name “X,” says Allen Adamson, co-founder of marketing consultancy Metaforce. The billionaire Tesla CEO tweeted last October that “buying Twitter is an accelerant to creating X, the everything app.” 
Musk’s rocket company, Space Exploration Technologies Corp., is commonly known as SpaceX. And in 1999, Musk founded a startup called X.com, an online financial services company now known as PayPal.
“Not sure what subtle clues gave it way, but I like the letter X,” Musk tweeted Sunday.
Hours later on Sunday, Linda Yaccarino, the longtime NBC Universal executive Musk appointed as Twitter CEO in May, weighed in on the move.
“It’s an exceptionally rare thing – in life or in business – that you get a second chance to make another big impression,” she wrote on her Twitter account. “Twitter made one massive impression and changed the way we communicate. Now, X will go further, transforming the global town square.”
Yaccarino wrote on Twitter that X would be “the future state of unlimited interactivity – centered in audio, video, messaging, payments/banking – creating a global marketplace for ideas, goods, services, and opportunities.”
But the change on Twitter was met with skepticism on the social media platform.
The change will be very confusing to a huge chunk of the Twitter’s audience, which has been already souring on the social platform given a slew of other major changes Musk has made, Adamson said.
“They won’t get it,” he said. “It’s a fitting end to a phenomenal unwinding of an iconic brand and business.”
Earlier this month, Musk put new curfews on his digital town square, a move that met with sharp criticism it could drive away more advertisers and undermine its cultural influence as a trendsetter.
The higher tweet-viewing threshold is part of an $8-per-month subscription service that Musk rolled out earlier this year in an attempt to boost Twitter revenue. Revenue has dropped sharply since Musk took over the company and laid off roughly three-fourths of the workforce to slash costs and avoid bankruptcy.
Luring advertisers is essential for Musk and Twitter after many fled in the early months after his takeover of the social media platform, fearing damage to their brands in the enveloping chaos. Advertisers have cut back on spending partly because of changes Musk has made that has allowed for more hateful content to flourish and that has offended a wider part of the platform’s audience.
Musk said in late April that advertisers had returned, but provided no specifics.
Musk’s move to change Twitter’s logo to an “X” also comes as Twitter faces new competition from Meta’s new app, Threads, launched earlier this month. It has been seen as an alternative for those who have been upset with Twitter.
Threads is being billed as a text-based version of Meta’s photo-sharing app Instagram that the company has said offers “a new, separate space for real-time updates and public conversations.”
In the first five days of its launch, 100 million people had signed up for Threads, according to a post on Threads by Instagram head Adam Mosseri.
date_published=5:26 PM GMT, July 6, 2023
published_by=WYATTE GRANTHAM-PHILIPS
title=What is Threads? All your questions about Meta’s new Twitter rival, answered
body=NEW YORK (AP) — Threads, a text-based app built by Meta to rival Twitter, is live.
The app, billed as the text version of Meta’s photo-sharing platform Instagram, became available Wednesday night to users in more than 100 countries — including the U.S., Britain, Australia, Canada and Japan. Despite some early glitches, 30 million people had signed up before noon on Thursday, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Threads.
New arrivals to the platform include celebrities like Oprah, pop star Shakira and chef Gordon Ramsay — as well as corporate accounts from Taco Bell, Netflix, Spotify, the Washington Post and other media outlets.
Threads, which Meta says provides “a new, separate space for real-time updates and public conversations,” arrives at a time when many are looking for Twitter alternatives to escape Elon Musk’s raucous oversight of the platform since acquiring it last year for $44 billion. But Meta’s new app has also raised data privacy concerns, and is notably unavailable in the European Union. 
Here’s what you need to know about Threads.
HOW CAN I USE THREADS?
Threads is now available for download in Apple and Google Android app stores for people in more than 100 countries. 
Threads was built by the Instagram team, so Instagram users can log into Threads through their Instagram account. Your username and verification status will carry over, according to the platform, but you will also have options to customize other areas of your profile — including whether or not you want to follow the same people that you do on Instagram.
Because Threads and Instagram are so closely linked, it’s also important to be cautious of account deletion. According to Threads’ supplemental privacy policy, you can deactivate your profile at any time, “but your Threads profile can only be deleted by deleting your Instagram account.”
CAN I USE THREADS IF I DON’T HAVE AN INSTAGRAM ACCOUNT?
For now, only Instagram users can create Threads accounts. If you want to access Threads, you will have to sign up for Instagram first.
While this may receive some pushback, VP and research director at Forrester Mike Proulx said making Threads an extension of Instagram was a smart move on Meta’s part.
“It’s piquing (user) curiosity,” Proulx said, noting that Instagram users are getting alerts about their followers joining Threads — causing more and more people to sign up. “That’s one of the reasons why Threads got over 10 million people to sign up in just a seven hour period” after launching.
Still, Proulx added, maintaining momentum and continuing to capture user attention past the initial curiosity bump will be crucial down the line — noting “the long term nature of threads is what’s going to ultimately predict its success or failure.”
HOW IS THREADS SIMILAR TO TWITTER?
Threads’ microblogging experience is very similar to Twitter. Users can repost, reply to or quote a thread, for example, and can see the number of likes and replies that a post has received. “Threads” can run up to 500 characters — compared with Twitter’s 280-character threshold — and can include links, photos and videos up to five minutes long.
In early replies on Threads, Zuckerberg said making the app “a friendly place” will be a key to success — adding that that was “one reason why Twitter never succeeded as much as I think it should have, and we want to do it differently.”
IS TWITTER SEEKING LEGAL ACTION AGAINST META?
According to a letter obtained by Semafor on Thursday, Twitter has threatened legal action against Meta over Threads. In the letter, which was addressed to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg and dated Wednesday, Alex Spiro, an attorney representing Twitter, accused Meta of unlawfully using Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property by hiring former Twitter employees to create a “copycat” app.
Meta spokesperson Andy Stone responded to the report of Spiro’s letter on Threads Thursday afternoon, writing, “no one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee.”
Musk hasn’t directly tweeted about the possibility of legal action, but he has replied to several snarky takes on the Threads launch. The Twitter owner responded to one tweet suggesting that Meta’s app was built largely through the use of the copy and paste function, with a laughing emoji.
Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino has also not publicly commented on Wednesday’s letter, but seemingly appeared to address Threads’ launch in a Thursday tweet — writing that “the Twitter community can never be duplicated.”
HASN’T THIS BEEN DONE BEFORE?
The similarities of Meta’s new text-based app suggests that the company is working to directly challenge Twitter. The tumultuous ownership has resulted in a series of unpopular changes that have turned off users and advertisers, some of whom are searching for Twitter alternatives.
Threads is the latest Twitter rival to emerge in this landscape following Bluesky, Mastodon and Spill.
HOW DOES THREADS MODERATE CONTENT?
According to Meta, Threads will use the same safety measures deployed on Instagram — which includes enforcing Instagram’s community guidelines and providing tools to control who can mention or reply to users.
Content warnings — on search queries ranging from conspiracy theory groups to misinformation about COVID-19 vaccinations — also appear to be similar to Instagram.
WHAT ARE THE PRIVACY CONCERNS?
Threads could collect a wide range of personal information — including health, financial, contacts, browsing and search history, location data, purchases and “sensitive info,” according to its data privacy disclosure on the App Store.
Threads also isn’t available in the European Union right now, which has strict data privacy rules.
Meta informed Ireland’s Data Privacy Commission, Meta’s main privacy regulator for the EU, that it has no plans yet to launch Threads in the 27-nation bloc, commission spokesman Graham Doyle said. The company said it is working on rolling the app out to more countries — but pointed to regulatory uncertainty for its decision to hold off on a European launch.
WHATS THE FUTURE FOR THREADS?
Success for Threads is far from guaranteed. Industry watchers point to Meta’s track record of starting standalone apps that were later shut down — including an Instagram messaging app also called “Threads” that shut down less than two years after its 2019 launch, Proulx notes.
Still, Proulx and others say the new app could be a significant headache for Musk and Twitter.
“The euphoria around a new service and this initial explosion will probably settle down. But it is apparent that this alternative is here to stay and will prove to be a worthy rival given all of Twitter’s woes,” technology analyst Paolo Pescatore of PP Foresight said, noting that combining Twitter-style features with Instagram’s look and feel could drive user engagement.
Threads is in its early days, however, and much depends on user feedback. Pescatore believes the close tie between Instagram and Threads might not resonate with everyone. The rollout of new features will also be key.
“The real test is not if we can build up a lot of hype, but if you all find enough value in the app to keep using it over time,” Instagram head Adam Mosseri wrote Thursday in a Threads post. He also acknowledged, as many users have already done, that there are “tons of basics” missing, including hashtags and direct messaging between users. “Full disclosure, it’ll take time.”
Thirty million users have signed up for Meta's newly launched Threads app on its first day, the company's chief Mark Zuckerberg says.

He pitched the app as a "friendly" rival to Twitter, which was bought by Elon Musk in October.

Experts say Threads could attract Twitter users unhappy with recent changes to the platform.

But Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino said though Twitter is "often imitated", its community can "never be duplicated".

Threads allows users to post up to 500 characters, and has many features similar to Twitter.

Earlier, Mr Zuckerberg said keeping the platform "friendly... will ultimately be the key to its success".

But Mr Musk responded: "It is infinitely preferable to be attacked by strangers on Twitter, than indulge in the false happiness of hide-the-pain Instagram."

When asked on Threads whether the app will be "bigger than Twitter", Mr Zuckerberg said: "It'll take some time, but I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it.

"Twitter has had the opportunity to do this but hasn't nailed it. Hopefully we will."

The launch has had a warm response online, with one person telling the BBC they saw Threads as a "much-needed competitor" to Twitter.

Table showing how Threads and Twitter compare, with Threads allowing posts of 500 characters compared with Twitter's 280, and 5 minute videos compared with 2min 20 secs. Both allow links, photos, and deleting posts but Twitter allows direct messaging, shows trending stories, and uses hashtags which Threads doesn't. Threads has verification but it is one of the services that you have to pay to access on Twitter, along with longer posts and videos and an editing function.
Competitors have criticised the amount of data the app might use. This may include health, financial, and browsing data linked to users' identities, according to the Apple App Store.

Some users have also expressed concern that it is not possible to delete your Threads profile without deleting the associated Instagram profile. Meta told the BBC: "At this time, you can't delete your Threads profile without deleting your Instagram account. This is something we're working on. In the meantime, you can deactivate your Threads profile at any time.

"Deactivating your Threads profile will not deactivate your Instagram account".

Deactivation will mean your Threads profile, your posts and interactions with others' posts won't be visible, the firm added.

Users can download and delete Threads data by visiting their Instagram settings, Meta says.

Threads is now available to download in over 100 countries including the UK, but not yet in the EU because of regulatory concerns.
Tech billionaires Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk have been joking about setting up a cage match. In the business world, the fight has already begun.

Less than 24 hours after Mr Zuckerberg launched his alternative to Twitter, Threads, it had already claimed some 30 million sign-ups - lending it credibility as a serious contender in the world of social media.

That's still a small fraction of the hundreds of millions of Twitter users.

But analysts think it's a sign that Mr Zuckerberg's Meta has a good shot at wooing some of its gigantic 3 billion-plus users on Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to the new offering - and bringing advertisers with them.

After all, Mr Zuckerberg, whose Meta made more than $117bn in sales last year, has a monster track record when it comes to selling adverts - and none of the apparent qualms of Mr Musk, who has disdained advertising at his electric car company, Tesla, and been looking for alternative ways to fund Twitter.

Mr Zuckerberg said there would be no ads on Threads initially, giving the company time to fine-tune the app, which allows users to scroll endlessly through text-based posts.

"Our approach will be the same as all our other products: make the product work well first, then see if we can get it on a clear path to 1 billion people, and only then think about monetization at that point," he wrote.

But eventually, Threads adverts could add 1% to 5% to Meta's overall revenue, generating more than $6bn in the most optimistic scenario, Justin Patterson, equity research analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets wrote in a note.

That's not huge. But it's also not nothing, especially as the company continues to look for ways to combat the hit to ad sales sparked by stricter privacy rules from Apple.

And it is well within striking distance of Twitter, which generated $4.5bn in ad revenue in 2021, before Mr Musk's takeover sparked upheaval.

Will users stay?
Whether that money materialises will depend on what Threads becomes, if anything, in the weeks and months ahead.

Mr Musk was ready on Thursday with the counter-punch, reportedly threatening legal action against Meta for stealing trade secrets.

But frustration with Twitter has left plenty of people hungry for an alternative; and Meta's promise of a "saner, kinder place" than Twitter "supercharged" early sign-ups, Insider Intelligence analyst Jasmine Enberg said.

Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg.
IMAGE SOURCE,GETTY IMAGES
"Posting. With optimism," quipped Sex and the City star Sarah Jessica Parker, one of the celebrities jumping into the fray alongside Shakira, Oprah and Khloe Kardashian.

Success will depend on winning over Twitter's power users or people who never signed up for the app in the first place - no sure bet, analysts said.

Twitter threatens legal action over Threads app
Threads could cause real problems for Twitter
'Almost every influencer will be hopping on Threads'
Though the fashion and lifestyle content that is the bread-and-butter of Instagram clearly holds appeal for advertisers, it is not clear the world needs another platform to consume it.

Mr Zuckerberg also has a complicated relationship with news, one of Twitter's main functions.

He has said surveys show users want less of it on the platforms he runs and in Canada, his company is preparing to block local reporting, rather than pay news providers there for their content.

"News hounds and avid Twitter loyalists aren't likely to defect... and Meta will need to keep Threads interesting to maintain the momentum once the novelty wears off," Ms Enberg said, adding that Mr Zuckerberg - who has been skewered before for creating copycat products - has "struggled" with innovation.

Regulatory risk
Advertisers will also be looking for confidence that they are not spending money on a platform exposing them to risks tied to issues like misinformation and privacy.

Under Mr Musk, Twitter, which had struggled to be profitable, has alienated advertisers with abrupt changes to how the site moderates content and more recently, a new limit on how many posts audiences can see.

Analysts say Meta has already been one of the beneficiaries from Twitter losing business.

But Mr Zuckerberg is not coming to the table with a clean record either.

His company has clashed with marketers for years over the transparency and accuracy of its data, while its handling of user data and misinformation has drawn widespread criticism.

"Advertisers want a clean ... well-lit environment where content is moderated on the terms and conditions agreed to, on a consistent basis," said marketing veteran Lou Paskalis, chief executive of AJL Advisory. "Overall right now social media is a bit of a dumpster fire."

Meta shares popped 4% on Wednesday ahead of the launch - a sign of investor confidence that Mr Zuckerberg has the ability to make it work, despite flops like Facebook Dating.

But replicating the way that news breaks on Twitter will be difficult, Mr Paskalis said, leaving room for both platforms to exist.

Or, he suggested, the presence of a serious threat could prove a "wake-up call" for Mr Musk.

"One of the keys will be how long will Threads eschew advertising," Mr Paskalis said. "Whatever that period of time is, that's the period of time that Twitter has to right that ship."
Meta has shown staff plans for a text-based social network designed to compete with Twitter, sources have told the BBC.

It could allow users to follow accounts they already follow on Instagram, Meta's image-sharing app.

And it could potentially allow them to bring over followers from decentralised platforms such as Mastodon.

A Meta spokesperson confirmed to the BBC that the platform was in development.

"We're exploring a standalone decentralised social network for sharing text updates," they said.

"We believe there's an opportunity for a separate space where creators and public figures can share timely updates about their interests."

Meta's chief product officer Chris Cox said coding was under way on the platform. The tech giant aims to release it soon, although no date was given. There is some speculation that it could be as early as the end of June.

Screenshots have appeared online which were shown internally to employees, potentially giving an idea of what the app will look like.

Sources within the company have told the BBC that these leaked screenshots are genuine. If they are, the layout of this new platform will be familiar to anyone who has spent time on Twitter.

Skip twitter post by Matt Navarra
Allow Twitter content?

This article contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy, external and privacy policy, external before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’.

Accept and continue
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
End of twitter post by Matt Navarra
The text-based network - which has a working title of P92 - could turn out to be a greater rival to Elon Musk's Twitter than either BlueSky or Mastodon.

While both have attracted users disillusioned with Twitter, starting afresh on a new social network and rebuilding a community, is difficult.

But the Instagram community is enormous. Meta says it has around two billion users, which dwarfs the 300 million that are believed to use Twitter - although its figures can no longer be verified.

If even 25% of Instagram users can be coaxed into using P92 (it will undoubtedly have a sexier name when it launches), it will instantly become bigger than its older rival.

Meta says it takes "inspiration" from other products, although others put it less kindly - Stories on Facebook was based on a Snapchat feature, and Reels on Instagram is unmistakably similar to TikTok.

Twitter has come under scrutiny in recent months over moderation on the platform, and in May withdrew from the EU's voluntary disinformation code.

Under Mr Musk, Twitter moderation has reportedly been reduced - which critics say allowed an increase in the spread of disinformation.

But Mr Musk says there is now "less misinformation rather than more" since he took over in October 2022.
Thirty million may have signed up for Meta's newly launched Threads app, but what do its users actually think?

Threads, pitched as a "friendly" rival to Twitter, has many similar features to the other social media platform.

Its lead feature is allowing users to instantly create a network with people they follow on Instagram.

And Steven Bridges, a YouTuber with 448k followers, told the BBC he saw Threads as a "much-needed competitor" to Twitter.

"Right now, there are a lot of people not happy at all with how Twitter's being run," he said.

"Threads gives them a potentially viable place to engage in the same way that they would use Twitter.

"People sort of know that Meta can run a social media company, so it gives a little bit of confidence that as it scales it will stick around and hopefully be well-moderated."

Steven said that he expected Threads to see an influx of content creators, who will typically create profiles on new social media platforms to attract an audience.

"Almost every influencer, whether they like it or not, or whether they want Threads to succeed or fail, will be hopping on Threads just in case it does succeed," he said.

"There is potentially a small advantage or a large advantage to being an early adopter of Threads - you certainly will have less people in the Threads ecosystem, so maybe you can get more followers quicker or something like that.

"Particularly, it's going to be relevant to new influencers that want to gain an audience... because if you post early and post regularly, perhaps you'll grow as the platform itself grows."

'Slipping and sliding'
Dhruti Shah, creative lead at consultancy Have You Thought About and a former BBC journalist, called Threads "really exciting" as a new platform, but said it might be hard for users to cut through the noise.

"Right now it honestly feels like you're at an ice skating rink, where everybody's jumping on and everyone's piling in," she said.

"Some people say they're going to be super amazing, because they've got a voice everywhere and a brand and a platform.

"Other people like me - because I'm not the best ice skater - are slipping and sliding and hoping that they don't get their fingers cut by falling over.

"That can be fun, but it does mean it's going to take a bit of time to understand what Threads is actually for, and when you're in a place that's really fast-paced, it can be quite overwhelming."

Dhruti Shah
IMAGE SOURCE,DHRUTI SHAH
Image caption,
Dhruti Shah said Threads users are trying to "showcase their digital presence"
Meanwhile, Doug Brown, an artist and Edinburgh black cab driver, said he was interested in Threads as it brought together elements from Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

"If I was to create a social networking app, I'd definitely model my app with the best of what the top social media apps offers us," he said.

"Threads by Instagram for me has achieved that, the Threads app looks like Twitter, but the app has brought a lot of the easy-to-use features from Instagram and Facebook together.

"So far I'm impressed with Threads."

Dr Ysabel Gerrard, senior lecturer in digital communication at the University of Sheffield, wondered if any app could truly "replace" Twitter.

"I just don't know if that really can happen, because Twitter was its own thing," she said.

"It had its own vibe and you were never going to be able to recreate what happened, because that culture accumulated over years and years and years".

"[Threads] is so tied to Instagram in terms of functionality, even just the branding, the associations that we're all making when we talk about it and in the press, and so on. I think it's going to be seen as almost like a TV programme spin off. That's how I see it in my mind."
Threads will add an alternative home feed of posts as part of a series of updates to the new social media app after users complained.

Instagram boss Adam Mosseri said a feed for Threads showing posts in chronological order is currently being worked on.

Users want to see posts from accounts they follow rather than chosen by Threads' algorithm.

Mr Mosseri said the new feed was "on the list" of changes to Threads.

Meta, which owns Threads, Instagram and Facebook, launched the social media app last week and more than 100 million users have signed up to use it.

Mr Mosseri said Mark Zuckerberg, Meta's chief executive, had given an alternative feed a "thumbs up", after a number of users expressed frustration at not being offered a feed of posts from people they followed, in the order in which they were posted.

Other features "on the list", according Mr Mosseri, include:

an ability to edit posts
translation into different languages
making it easy to switch between different Threads accounts
While it is possible to view Threads on the web, via Threads.net, there is no desktop interface - posts can be made only via the app - and that too was something the company was "working on", according to Mr Mosseri.

Table showing how Threads and Twitter compare
There is also no search function. When it announced the app's launch, the company said it would add a "more robust search function" along with improvements to the selection of recommended posts.

Meanwhile the only way currently to fully delete a Threads profile is to delete the associated Instagram account, which many users would be reluctant to - another issue the company is looking to fix.

When Threads was launched, Meta announced it planned to allow it to communicate with other social-media platforms, such as Mastodon, using something known as the fediverse.

But this suggestion while welcomed by some, has met opposition.

'Clear victory'
The idea of the fediverse is it is like email. Someone on Gmail can exchange emails with someone using Hotmail, for example, and the fediverse could be described as that idea applied to social media.

At some point in the future Meta wants users to be able to use their Threads account to interact with other social-media platforms using ActivityPub - a protocol with the necessary programming code - such as Mastodon, WordPress or Reddit-alternative Lemmy.

But some worry Threads threatens the idea of this system altogether, because of a practice big tech companies have utilised in the past - "embrace, extend and extinguish", when a company with a lot of resources extends what is possible from a new technology so drastically it becomes the new standard, leaving people with no choice but to use its platform.

Mastodon chief executive Eugen Rochko dismissed these fears, saying Meta joining Threads was "validation of the movement towards decentralised social media" and "a clear victory for our cause".

But concern among users has grown with over a hundred Mastodon communities joining what they call the "fedipact" - an agreement to block Meta from being able to access their community under any circumstances - so even when Threads does begin to support ActivityPub, users will not be able to access everything on the fediverse.

One other feature coming to Threads at some point may also receive mixed reviews. There is no advertising on the platform - for now.
Threads, the social media app aimed at rivalling Twitter, has signed up more than 100 million users in less than five days.

The platform, launched by Instagram-owner Meta, has beaten a record set by Open AI's ChatGPT app.

Threads went live on Apple and Android app stores in 100 countries, including the UK, last Wednesday.

Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg said he "couldn't believe" the milestone had been reached so fast.

It hasn't all been plain sailing for Threads though - it is not available in mainland Europe yet because of uncertainty over whether it complies with EU data privacy legislation.

In his first public comments on the situation, the EU's industry commissioner Thierry Breton told French radio station, Franceinfo, that "taking a little time to do so seems to me to be probably good policy."

Despite its problems in the EU Threads has enjoyed rapid growth. Meta, which also owns Facebook, said the app had 10 million users within the first seven hours of launch and more than 30 million by Thursday morning.

Around 24 hours later, that figure had more than doubled.

It still has some way to go to catch its main rival though. At 100 million, Threads' user base stands at less than a third of the 350 million users that Twitter is believed to have.

Some Twitter users have become disenchanted since billionaire Elon Musk took over. Thousands of jobs have been cut under his ownership and he has announced a number of changes to help generate revenue at Twitter.

Table showing how Threads and Twitter compare
Other rivals have emerged like Mastodon and Bluesky but have struggled without an existing user base.

Threads has capitalised on being linked to Instagram which has more than one billion users.

People who sign up to Threads will display a link to their profile in the app in their Instagram profile but there is an option to hide this.

In order to sign up for Threads, users must have an Instagram account.

It is not possible to delete your Threads profile without deleting the associated Instagram profile.

However, deactivating your Threads profile will not deactivate your Instagram account.

Deactivation will mean your Threads profile, your posts and interactions with others' posts won't be visible, Meta says.

Legal threat
Since Threads' launch, Twitter has threatened the rival with legal action.

A lawyer for the company accused Mr Zuckerberg of "systematic, wilful, and unlawful misappropriation of Twitter's trade secrets and other intellectual property" to create Threads.

Twitter claimed that Meta had hired former employees who "had and continue to have access to Twitter's trade secrets and other highly confidential information". Meta has denied this.

Users on Threads can post text of up to 500 characters, more than the 280 characters available on Twitter. Both apps allow people to post links, images and video.

But the rules governing what content can be posted differ - nudity and not-safe-for-work (NSFW) explicit images are prohibited on Threads.

Also unlike Twitter, there is no desktop version of Threads as yet.
Meta has launched its much-teased rival to Twitter, Threads, in the UK and US. The BBC's technology editor Zoe Kleinman and North America technology correspondent James Clayton have both tried out the app. Here are their first impressions.

Zoe Kleinman, technology editor
It was the middle of the night in the UK when my phone buzzed to let me know that Meta Threads, the new social network app I'd pre-ordered on the App Store, had been installed.

Given the timing, I wasn't expecting much to be going on from a UK location. I already have an Instagram account so within three clicks I had a profile, and I selected to follow everybody I already follow on the photo-sharing app.

Suddenly it was like I'd walked through the door to a great big house party. Loads of people were signing up, writing their first posts, responding to others and commenting on the new surroundings.

I had dozens of followers in the first five minutes, and nearly 500 as I write this. (I've still got fewer than 300 on another Twitter alternative, the Jack Dorsey-founded text-based network, BlueSky, which I've been on for weeks.)

30 million join Meta's Twitter rival - Zuckerberg
Can Threads make more money than Twitter?
'Almost every influencer will be hopping on Threads'
If you're familiar with Twitter, you'll recognise the design of Threads instantly. Everything from the heart-shaped symbol to "like" a post, to the circle of arrows denoting the feature to repost, is the same.

Some early complaints include the lack of a private messaging feature, no hashtags or trends to help navigate popular content, and no timeline curation options other than the ability to mute accounts or words, and block others.

But I feel we should add the word "yet" - Threads is officially only a few hours old (although it is its second outing following an earlier version in 2019 that was discontinued. Perhaps the world wasn't yet ready, or sufficiently annoyed with the goings on at Twitter).

What stands it apart from other Twitter rivals is the instant integration of this vast, ready-made Instagram community. Two billion people use the photo-sharing app and this offers an easy way for them all to land on another platform.

This makes it instantly engaging, which will appeal hugely to advertisers, who I imagine will eventually fund it, although there will apparently be no ads for the first year.

James Clayton, North America technology correspondent
First impressions of Threads: can Meta do this? Is this not somehow plagiarism?

The app looks almost identical to Twitter. The news feed, the reposting. It's all incredibly familiar.

Mark Zuckerberg claims millions of people have signed up in the first few hours. You should always be sceptical when a tech boss says how many users have signed up to a platform. But it does feel like a lot of people are already on it.

That's partly because it's connected to Instagram. Meta isn't creating an app from scratch. It's benefiting from its two billion Instagram followers that are giving it a massive shot in the arm.

Platforms like Bluesky and Mastodon did not have this luxury. They started with zero users.

But whether this is "fair" or not, Mr Zuckerberg doesn't care. He's copied other apps before to great success (Reels is a clone of TikTok) and he's happy to do so again.

Knowing the power of celebrity, Mr Zuckerberg has also utilised famous names on Instagram and managed to get some of them on Threads, like Shakira and Gordon Ramsay.

Mr Zuckerberg will be thrilled with the buzz around the app. When it comes to social media, it's all about the network effect. The more people use the app, the better the app is.

When it comes to social media, the network effect can create a sort of tipping point. When so many of your friends or people you want to hear from are on a platform, you kind of feel you have to join.

It's very, very hard to create a network effect on a social media platform. But when it works, it really works. The reverse is also true. When communities leave a social media platform, they can do so quickly - and it can be devastating. Think Myspace or Bebo.

Let's go to some of the problems with Threads, though.

Unlike Twitter, which has two feeds - a recommendations feed and an option just to see tweets from those you follow - Threads has just one feed that blends your followers and content it thinks you will want. That could get annoying.

It doesn't seem to have desktop functionality yet - it doesn't work well on your computer. That's a shame.

There doesn't seem to be any trending information, so it's hard to see what's going viral.

And when it comes to verification, users can still buy their blue ticks for a monthly fee, just as you can with Twitter.

Mark Zuckerberg described the app as an "initial version" - and that's what it feels like. It does the basics well. But this is a no-thrills app right now.

That said, Meta's boss will be over the moon with how this has gone so far. Considering the bad press he's got over the years, he is reinventing himself as the adult in the room - the sensible tech billionaire who wants a friendly social media platform.

You can tell this has riled Elon Musk. "Thank goodness they're so sanely run," he tweeted sarcastically on Monday.

But if Mr Zuckerberg was nervous that disaffected Twitter uses would spurn Meta's offer, so far, it looks like those fears were unfounded.

And if that is the case, with an app that works perfectly well, if not spectacularly, that could be a real problem for Mr Musk.
Facebook owner Meta is launching its new app to rival Twitter and says it will go live on Thursday.

The app, which is called Threads and is available for pre-order on the Apple App Store, will be linked to Instagram.

Screengrabs show a dashboard that looks similar to Twitter. Meta describes Threads as a "text based conversation app".

The move is the latest in a rivalry between Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter owner Elon Musk.

Last month, the pair agreed to a physical fight, though it is unclear how serious the two men were about actually holding a bout.

"Thank goodness they're so sanely run", Mr Musk responded to a tweet about Threads, in an apparent fresh swipe at Mr Zuckerberg.

Meanwhile, Twitter has said that the popular user dashboard, TweetDeck will go behind a paywall in 30 days time.

The move is the latest push by Mr Musk as he tries to get users to sign up to Twitter's subscription service, Twitter Blue.

On Saturday, the multi-billionaire restricted the number of tweets users could see, citing extreme "data scraping".

It appears from Meta's Threads app that it will be a free service - and there will be no restrictions on how many posts a user can see.

"Threads is where communities come together to discuss everything from the topics you care about today to what'll be trending tomorrow" the description on the App Store says.

Pictures show screengrabs from the app, that look almost identical to Twitter.

Threads will also hoover up data on your phone, including location data, purchases and browsing history.

Several apps that bear a striking resemblance to Twitter have sprung up in recent years - such as Donald Trump's Truth Social and Mastodon.

Another similar app, Bluesky claimed to have seen "record" traffic after Mr Musk's move to restrict usage at the weekend.

However, Threads could be the biggest threat faced by Twitter to date.

Mark Zuckerberg has a history of borrowing other company's ideas - and making them work.

Meta's Reels is widely seen as a TikTok copy, while Stories looks similar to Snapchat.

Meta has the resources to compete with Twitter. Threads will be part of the Instagram platform, so it will also be connected to hundreds of millions of accounts. It's not starting from zero, as other would-be rivals have had to do.

Although Mr Musk has been praised in some quarters for his commitment to free speech, he has also alienated some users.

Mr Zuckerberg will hope he can pull enough disenchanted users away from Twitter to create a genuine alternative.
Twitter is considering legal action against Meta over its fast-growing rival app Threads.

Threads, which was launched to millions on Wednesday, is similar to Twitter and has been pitched by Meta bosses as a "friendly" alternative.

Twitter's Elon Musk said "competition is fine, cheating is not" - but Meta denied claims in a legal letter that ex-Twitter staff helped create Threads.

More than 70 million people have signed up for the new app, according to Meta.

Twitter has an estimated 350 million users, according to Statista.

According to an SEC filing from 2013, it took Twitter four years to build the same number of users that Threads gained in a day - though Twitter grew its userbase from scratch, while Threads was able to tap into the pre-existing two billion monthly users Meta says Instagram has.


Media caption,
Watch: Zuckerberg v Musk rivalry: 'It's game on'

The look and feel of Threads are similar to those of Twitter, BBC News technology reporter James Clayton noted. He said the news feed and the reposting were "incredibly familiar".

But US copyright law does not protect ideas, so for Twitter to be successful in court it would have to prove that its own intellectual property, such as programming code, was taken.

And in 2012 Meta was granted a patent for "communicating a newsfeed" - the system that displays all the latest posts when you use Facebook.

In a move first reported by news outlet Semafor, Twitter attorney Alex Spiro sent a letter to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday accusing Meta of "systematic, wilful, and unlawful misappropriation of Twitter's trade secrets and other intellectual property" to create Threads.

Specifically, Mr Spiro alleged that Meta had hired dozens of former Twitter employees who "had and continue to have access to Twitter's trade secrets and other highly confidential information" that ultimately helped Meta develop what he termed the "copycat" Threads app.

"Twitter intends to strictly enforce its intellectual property rights, and demands that Meta take immediate steps to stop using any Twitter trade secrets or other highly confidential information," the letter says.

"Twitter reserves all rights, including, but not limited to, the right to seek both civil remedies and injunctive relief without further notice."

BBC News, which has seen a copy of the letter, has contacted both Meta and Twitter for comment.

Mr Musk said that "competition is fine, cheating is not" in response to a post on Twitter that referred to the legal letter.

On Threads, Meta spokesperson Andy Stone posted that "no one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee - that's just not a thing".

Can Threads make more money than Elon Musk’s Twitter?
'Almost every influencer will be hopping on Threads'
Threads could cause real problems for Twitter
Sarah Kunst, managing director at venture capital firm Cleo Capital, told the BBC's Today programme Threads could offer a "brand-safe environment" for existing Instagram advertisers who "feel they can allocate some budget and see what happens".

She added that while the app reaching 30 million users could be the result of an initial rush, it will likely see a steady increase in users.

"They've made it very easy to cross-post to other platforms like Instagram, so I think that we'll continue to see growth," she said.

Both Mr Musk and Mr Zuckerberg have acknowledged the rivalry over Threads, which is linked to Instagram but works as a standalone app.

As it launched in 100 countries, Mr Zuckerberg broke more than 11 years of silence on Twitter to post a highly popular meme of two nearly identical Spider-Man figures pointing at each other, indicating a stand-off.

Shortly after, and as the word "Threads" trended globally on his platform, Mr Musk said: "It is infinitely preferable to be attacked by strangers on Twitter, than indulge in the false happiness of hide-the-pain Instagram."

Table showing how Threads and Twitter compare, with Threads allowing posts of 500 characters compared with Twitter's 280, and 5 minute videos compared with 2min 20 secs. Both allow links, photos, and deleting posts but Twitter allows direct messaging, shows trending stories, and uses hashtags which Threads doesn't. Threads has verification but it is one of the services that you have to pay to access on Twitter, along with longer posts and videos and an editing function.
Twitter CEO Linda Yaccarino said in a tweet on Thursday that while the platform, is "often imitated" it "can never be duplicated".

Both Meta and Twitter have undertaken significant layoffs this year, with Meta announcing in April that it would cut staff levels by approximately 10,000.

Twitter lost a large proportion of its 7,500 employees, as high as 80%, in waves of redundancies following Mr Musk's takeover last October.
As new social media apps including Threads pop up, some companies are choosing to eschew the platforms. What’s going on?

Another day, another social media platform to post on.

The launch of Threads on 6 July marked the latest major short-form text platform available to social media users, following Twitter, Mastodon and Bluesky – plus a raft of other, smaller competitors.

Like many of us, big companies are struggling to keep up with the number of social media platforms vying for their time and attention. They’re faced with the important choice of which apps to choose, in a market where social media can be an important brand-building tool and enable them to target consumers where they are most active.

For the past decade, It’s been all but required for serious brands to maintain a social media presence, says Nathan Allebach, creative director at Allebach Communications, which has partnered with brands including Utz Snacks and Steak-umm to build out their social media presences.

Not only is it a major avenue to meet consumers, but social media is also a key contributor for brand discovery – which companies hope will translate into sales across generations of shoppers.

Yet instead of scrambling to claim digital real estate across all these newly emerging platforms, some companies are choosing to be more judicious about which platforms they choose to join. In some cases, they’re learning from brands who jumped the social media ship years ago.

Bullying and polarisation

One of the first large brands to make the move was Lush Cosmetics, which in November 2021 decided to stop posting on social media platforms controlled by Meta, the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.

The beauty company initially dropped off the platforms in 2019, due to concerns about fighting with ever-changing social media algorithms as well as the company’s worry about the potentially negative impact of social media on young people.

“We are a social brand, and community has been key for us,” says Annabelle Baker, Lush’s global brand director. “When we joined social media, Facebook and those platforms were everything we were looking for initially: they were direct links to the communities.”

Lush Cosmetics is one of the brands that's chosen to drop off social media, and does not have plans to join new platforms such as Threads (Credit: Alamy)
Lush Cosmetics is one of the brands that's chosen to drop off social media, and does not have plans to join new platforms such as Threads (Credit: Alamy)

But Baker says they withdrew when social media changed to being inherently less social and user-centric, mediated instead by algorithms controlled by companies. Although Lush re-emerged on the platforms during Covid-19 in order to reach customers during lockdowns, the beauty brand has now gone dark again. They’ve been off social media for almost two years – and don’t have current plans to come back.

Time, say social media experts, is a driver pushing away brands: it can be a tall task to ask often junior employees to keep tabs on so many platforms. It’s a situation that has become more pressing with the new boom in Twitter alternatives, where a clear winner hasn’t yet emerged.

But some brands have also been feeling a distinct sense of unease about social media in general. First, like Lush, some companies are unhappy about the way the platforms operate and their management.

But perhaps more pressing is the risk of followers turning on brands amid the volatility and toxicity of some social media user bases. As social media has polarised society in unexpected ways, brands have found many users quick to criticise an account they believe has mis-stepped.

When luxury fashion brand Bottega Veneta left much of social media in 2021, its creative director Daniel Lee cited  “a mood of playground bullying on social media”. He told The Guardian: “I don’t want to collude in an atmosphere that feels negative. ”

Some brands have also been feeling a distinct sense of unease about social media in general
“The main utility of an organic social media presence for most brands is activating the 1% of their super fans and haters. Ultimately, every team has to assess the risk-reward ratio of how much to invest … the investment isn’t worth it to every brand, especially with how many platforms there are to consider and how precarious they can be,” says Allebach.

To join or not to join?

The launch of Threads has brought the stay-or-go conversation back to the forefront.

Along with audiences already on other emerging platforms, Meta’s purported Twitter killer already has more than 100 million users, less than a week after it began – in other words, a growing group of potential customers for brands.

Yet deciding whether to embrace the new apps is tricky.

For one, brands are still struggling with the issues of reputation and user abuse. And some brands may also have concerns with Threads specifically, as Meta has prior precedent of launching apps designed to compete with and supplant existing incumbents (Instagram Reels, for instance, was designed to tackle TikTok), which don’t always succeed. Companies could end up devoting significant resources to building a presence on a platform that disappears in a few months’ time.

Brands will make their social media decisions individually – but Allebach says many still ultimately feel pressure to hang a shingle on these new platforms.

“At this point, it’s hard to imagine a future where brands start pulling out of social media platforms en masse,” he says. Yet he adds it’s possible we’ll see more brands pulling back, especially if "they can’t quantify the value or start believing the risks outweigh the rewards”.

Lush’s Baker says that her company isn’t eager to leap back into social media with Threads – even with the large audience. “It’ll be a test of time to see whether people stay there and actively use it,” she says. “But I’m not tempted to jump on Threads for the time being.”


Advertisers are eagerly watching how Meta’s new Threads messaging app develops over the next few months as they look for a new social channel to reach consumers while Twitter continues to struggle.

Instagram Threads debuted last week and has amassed more than 100 million sign-ups, which has caught the attention of numerous companies, several digital marketing agencies and industry experts told CNBC.

Natasha Blumenkron, vice president of paid social for marketing firm Tinuiti, said that Threads has become the topic du jour for her company’s clients, who are trying to figure out how the messaging app fits into their existing social media strategies.

Many businesses that have stopped advertising on Twitter over brand safety concerns, including the reported increase in racist and hateful speech on the platform under the ownership of Tesla chief Elon Musk, are excited about the possibility of advertising on Threads once that option becomes available, Blumenkron said.

Meta is currently more focused on building the core Threads product as opposed to monetizing the app, Instagram head Adam Mosseri has said in various interviews and a post on Threads. Many popular features that are common to other social apps, like the ability to use hashtags or read posts in chronological order, are not currently available, and Mosseri has said that his team is working to incorporate some of those tools.

Blumenkron explained that many brands are interested in the potential for Threads to add more features like chronological feeds and the ability to search for hashtags. These features can be helpful for companies to ensure that their posts are being shown to the right audience and helps them understand which trending topics could inform their content.

“When we think about playing in the paid space, brands really just want to make sure that their content is reaching relevant audiences,” Blumenkron said. “You’re paying to play at the end of the day, and you want to make sure you’re where it makes the most sense.”

Rachel Tipograph, CEO of marketing technology firm MikMak, said that her company’s clientele of consumer product firms and retailers are also interested in advertising opportunities on Threads, as they consistently try to “find new eyeballs,” particularly as Twitter’s brand safety problems have continued to increase.

MikMak was able to deduce that many of the company’s clients significantly pulled back on their Twitter advertising spend based on how much traffic the firm records from the paid advertising campaigns it helps manage for customers, she said.

For example, MikMak logged a 42% decline in Twitter traffic between April and May, indicating that companies were pausing their paid advertising campaigns. When Linda Yaccarino, former NBCUniversal global advertising chief, became Twitter CEO in June, MikMak recorded a 21% increase in Twitter traffic, suggesting that for some brands, the longtime advertising executive’s arrival at Twitter caused some companies to increase their spending, Tipograph said.

It’s too early to tell whether the debut of Threads will impact Twitter’s advertising sales as of now, Tipograph added.

Twitter issued an automated response when contacted for a request for comment.

Besides Threads’ increasingly growing user base, Tipograph said that companies are interested in Threads because it shares similar back-end administration tools to Instagram, meaning that corporate social media managers could have an easier time using the platform. Additionally, companies that already have Instagram accounts can essentially port their followers over to Threads rather than building an audience from scratch.

“It’s the most instant onboarding experience I’ve ever experienced in the history of my career, and my entire career has been in social,” Tipograph said.

Still, Tipograph believes that in order for Threads to have a major impact on online advertising, it’s going to need users who regularly interact with each other on the site, which could be quantified by the number of daily active users, an established marketing metric.

For Tal Jacobson, incoming CEO of digital advertising firm Perion Network, “the number of sign-ups doesn’t mean a lot.” Although it was easy for current Instagram users to create Threads accounts, he said, it’s unclear how active they will be on the service.

“The number of conversations is really the number you need to look for,” Jacobson said, regarding which statistics would be most helpful for advertisers.

Since Threads is so new, it’s unclear which kind of audience Threads is attracting, Tipograph said. Companies will be watching to see if the messaging app attracts a different type of audience than merely existing Instagram users, which will impact their marketing plans, she added.

Instagram’s Mosseri recently said that Threads will not actively promote discussions around news and politics, and the company believes that catering to topics such as fashion and sports would be less divisive. Because of this, some of Twitter’s core audience, who use the service to keep up with the rapid-fire nature of news and politics, could be less interested in using Threads, if the platform is geared toward lifestyle and entertainment.

Even if Threads doesn’t capture an audience interested in news and politics, it could still be a good business for Meta, according to Brian Wieser, a media consultant and former technology analyst. The total addressable audience for entertainment and lifestyle content may be much larger than the number of people interested in hard news, which could be a “a better business” to focus on and less of a reputational risk, Wieser said.

Wieser believes it’s possible for Threads to represent “a nice, incremental multibillion-dollar business” for Meta if it’s able to keep users glued to the service, and if it doesn’t morph into a video app that’s indistinguishable from others.

Angelo Carusone, chairman and president of the Media Matters for America nonprofit, said that if Instagram chooses to focus on more lifestyle content than hard news, it won’t have the same relevancy as Twitter to influence national and global affairs.

“It might have commercial viability, but it wouldn’t have any real relevancy,” Carusone said.

Media Matters and other groups including Free Press and Accountable Tech urged advertisers to stop spending on Twitter when Musk took over last fall, citing an increase in hate speech and other concerns.  

Although Threads may not currently have the same amount of offensive content on its service that drives away users and advertisers, Carusone said that it’s possible that the same bad actors and trolls who have increased their activity on Twitter could do so on Threads.

Carusone noted that Nick Fuentes, a livestreamer and outspoken antisemite who was banned from Instagram in 2019, recently said that he created a fake Instagram and Threads account and urged his viewers to “blow up and red pill some people on there.”

If Meta isn’t prepared to handle users intent on spreading misinformation and divisive content on Threads, the messaging app risks alienating advertisers in addition to users, Carusone said, adding that Meta isn’t free from the issues plaguing Twitter, particularly after Meta’s layoffs on its trust and safety teams.

“My point is that Threads basically magnifies a problem that Instagram has [that] Facebook has never solved,” Carusone said. “And I think that is a real thing.”
Just sixteen hours after launch, Instagram’s text-based social network Threads has already surpassed 30 million sign-ups, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said early Thursday. It was also the top free app in Apple’s App Store as of Thursday morning.

The app is Meta’s answer to Twitter, which has seen some of its users and advertisers flee since billionaire Elon Musk acquired the social media platform. On Saturday, Twitter began limiting the number of posts users can read per day to address “extreme levels of data scraping,” which only served to further frustrate users.

A number of Twitter alternatives have emerged in recent months, including decentralized messaging app Mastodon and Bluesky, which is backed by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey. But neither platform has been able to match Twitter’s user base and popularity.

Threads may have an easier time attracting users. It’s built on top of Instagram and is automatically linked to a user’s account on the photo-sharing app. Initially, users could only access the service through a roundabout way in the Instagram app. But as of Thursday, the app is available for download from Apple’s App Store, and it’s free to use.

Users are required to have an Instagram account in order to use Threads. Once you download the app, it will prompt you to login using your Instagram account. From there, Threads will automatically port over your Instagram username, but you can still customize your profile.

Threads gives you the option to automatically follow all of the same accounts you follow on Instagram, or just a few of them, so that you don’t have to painstakingly locate all your friends and followers on Threads.

Meta is pitching Threads as Instagram’s “text-based conversation app.” And in many ways, Threads looks very similar to Twitter.

Users primarily post text-based messages, or “threads,” that are limited to 500 characters each. You can tag specific users in a thread by using the @ symbol in front of their username. Users can limit replies on their thread to only their followers, or people they’ve tagged in the post. You can also include photos or videos in a thread.

Threads appear in a scrolling feed, where users can like, reply, repost or quote other users’ threads.

Threads may look a lot like its rival, but it’s missing some critical features.

The most glaring omission is direct messaging, or DMs. One-on-one, private messaging is a hallmark of nearly every other major social media network, including Twitter and Meta’s own Instagram and Facebook. Threads didn’t launch with direct messaging, which can pose a problem for journalists, who often receive messages from potential sources, or for brands, which can offer customer service through social media messaging.

The Threads feed pulls in posts from all users, not just the ones you follow. It can be hard to find the content posted by the users or brands that you’ve followed, and as of now, there’s no way to change the way the feed loads.

Like Instagram, Threads isn’t serving up posts in a chronological order. Content is apparently algorithmically ranked and served up to users no matter what time it’s posted.

There are also no paid ads in Threads, yet. Many brands have already joined up, though. Instagram head Adam Mosseri, who oversees the new app, told the Verge that advertising would be a “champagne problem” if Threads is able to scale.

Threads also lacks the ability to include hashtags in posts. Hashtags are a core feature of Twitter, and have made it easy for users to discover posts under a certain topic, as well as surface trending content in one place. Similarly, Threads doesn’t have a feature that allows users to search for specific text or phrases.

Another key differentiator is that Threads doesn’t have a desktop website, so you can only access the service via iOS or Android apps.

There’s also one significant downside to Threads being linked to Instagram. For now, Meta says there’s no way to delete your Threads account without also deleting your Instagram account.
Meta has officially debuted its Twitter-like messaging app Threads, which the company is pitching as Instagram’s “text-based conversation app.”

Mark Zuckerberg, Meta’s CEO and co-founder, announced the debut of Threads on Wednesday, marking the official release of the social networking giant’s new text-focused messaging app. Threads represents Meta’s attempt to capture the wave of users who have left Twitter amid the often unpredictable ownership of Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk.

The Threads app is now available to download for free on the Apple App Store and Google Play online store in over 100 countries, Meta said in a blog post. Threads shares Twitter’s visual aesthetic as a text-based social messaging app in which users can post short messages that others can like, share, and comment upon, according to screenshots of Threads that are available on Apple’s App Store.

People will be able to follow the same Threads accounts that they follow on Instagram and reply to other public posts in a way akin to how people use Twitter.

Zuckerberg said Threads had crossed 5 million sign ups within the first four hours.

The official release comes after Instagram released on Monday a pre-order for Threads on the Apple App Store, which said that at the time that the app was expected to debut on July 6. Many Instagram users were also recently able to obtain invitations to access Threads from within their Instagram accounts.

Although Threads is linked to Instagram, with users able to use their existing Instagram usernames, the messaging service is a separate app that people will need to download.

“Threads is where communities come together to discuss everything from the topics you care about today to what’ll be trending tomorrow,” Instagram said in a description of Threads on the Apple App Store. “Whatever it is you’re interested in, you can follow and connect directly with your favorite creators and others who love the same things — or build a loyal following of your own to share your ideas, opinions and creativity with the world.”

Meta said in the blog post that people’s individual feeds on the new messaging app will include “threads” that were posted by other users that they follow, in addition to recommended content shared from creators who users may not know.

People will be able to publish Threads posts that are up to 500 characters long, and while the app is geared toward text, people will also be able so share links, photos and videos that can be as long as 5 minutes. Instagram users will also be able to share their Threads posts via the app’s story feature in addition to “any other platform you choose,” the blog post said.

Meta said that it developed Threads “with tools to enable positive, productive conversations,” and people will be able to manage who is mentioning or is replying to them within the app.

“Like on Instagram, you can add hidden words to filter out replies to your threads that contain specific words,” the blog post said. “You can unfollow, block, restrict or report a profile on Threads by tapping the three-dot menu, and any accounts you’ve blocked on Instagram will automatically be blocked on Threads.”

The release of Threads comes as Twitter has suffered a wave of mishaps under the ownership of Tesla CEO Elon Musk, leaving the popular social messaging app vulnerable to competing apps.

Most recently, Musk said that Twitter users will only be able to see a certain number of Tweets per day in an attempt to deal with “extreme levels of data scraping” and “system manipulation” on the messaging service.

Numerous Twitter users publicly complained about Musk imposing a temporary so-called “rate limit” on Twitter, saying that the Tweet limits make the app a less engaging experience.

BlueSky, a rival social messaging app that is backed by Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, said that it recorded “record-high traffic” after Musk announced the Twitter rate limit, and it temporarily paused sign-ups to deal with the influx of new users, who must currently be invited to use the app.

Like BlueSky, Threads will use decentralized technology that theoretically lets users control and manage their data across other apps that incorporate the same underlying software.

Whereas BlueSky is built on the decentralized networking technology dubbed the AT Protocol, Threads will eventually incorporate another decentralized technology called ActivityPub, Instagram head Adam Mosseri said in a Threads post on Wednesday that was briefly available to the public. The ActivityPub software also powers another Twitter-like messaging app called Mastadon, which has also experienced an influx of new users seeking an alternative to Twitter.

Mosseri said that his team wasn’t able to include support for ActivityPub in time for Threads’ official release because of “a number of complications that come along with a decentralized network.” But he reiterated that support is coming.

“If you’re wondering why this matters, here’s a reason: you may one day end up leaving Threads, or, hopefully not, end up de-platformed,” Mosseri said. “If that ever happens, you should be able to take your audience with you to another server. Being open can enable that.”

Meta added in its blog post that ActivityPub will enable people without Threads accounts to view Threads and interact with Threads users who have public profiles via other social apps that incorporate the same decentralized technology.

“If you have a public profile on Threads, this means your posts would be accessible from other apps, allowing you to reach new people with no added effort,” Meta said in the blog post. “If you have a private profile, you’d be able to approve users on Threads who want to follow you and interact with your content, similar to your experience on Instagram.”

Meta said that Threads is the company’s first app “envisioned to be compatible with an open social networking protocol,” which it believes could usher “in a new era of diverse and interconnected networks.”

In 2019, Meta, then known as Facebook, debuted a messaging app for Instagram users that was also called Threads. Unlike the current iteration of Threads that caters to text-based messages, the previous Threads app was instead centered around people sending short video and photo messages to their friends like they were using Snapchat.

Meta eventually shuttered Threads in 2021, and redirected people to use Instagram to see all their previous Threads messages.
Instagram Threads, the Twitter clone Meta launched two weeks ago, is being updated to include new features, including a follows tab.

Cameron Roth, a software engineer for Instagram, shared a Threads post Tuesday, announcing additions to the app as part of an update to Apple’s iOS.

The follows tab will presumably make it easier for people to see who is following them. Users will also be able to access a translate button to read text in other languages and more easily read posts from people they don’t follow. Roth said the iOS update includes some software bug fixes and loading improvements.

Threads was an instant hit for Meta, which reported a record 100 million sign-ups in just five days, eliciting defensive responses from Twitter founder Elon Musk and new CEO Linda Yaccarino. However, data from Sensor Tower and Similarweb showed that the service saw some drops in growth and engagement the following week.

Advertisers told CNBC they’re hoping for Threads to incorporate more features such as chronological feeds and the ability to search for hashtags, which could help them create better ad campaigns when Meta opens up that opportunity.

In a separate Threads post Tuesday, Roth said regarding the update that users “may need to restart your app to see some of these or otherwise wait until the end of the day!”

“We use a system of server-delivered flags which can take awhile to fully release,” he wrote.
Meta’s new Threads app has been live for less than two days, but one of the company’s top executives thinks prioritizing news and political discourse on the platform “is not at all worth” the apparent business and “platform” downsides.

Adam Mosseri, who oversees both Instagram and the text-based, Instagram-powered Threads, offered the commentary in an unusually candid post on the new social network on Friday.

“Politics and hard news are inevitably going to show up on Threads - they have on Instagram as well to some extent - but we’re not going to do anything to encourage those verticals,” he wrote in a response to a reporter’s question about Threads replacing Twitter for news industry professionals.

“Politics and hard news are important,” Mosseri continued. “But my take is, from a platform’s perspective, any incremental engagement or revenue they might drive is not at all worth the scrutiny, negativity (let’s be honest), or integrity risks that come along with them.”

Meta representatives did not immediately respond to CNBC’s request for comment on whether Meta would downrank news or political content on Threads as the company has periodically done on other platforms.

Mosseri’s comment came even as Meta fights to prevent governments from forcing the company to pay newsrooms for the content that Meta leverages for advertises and engagement.

For example, in Canada. new legislation would require Meta to pay money to Canadian newsrooms, something that would cost both Google and Meta an estimated $329 million Canadian dollars against billions of advertising revenue.

In response, Meta blocked Canadian outlets from appearing on Meta and Instagram search results, a restriction that would presumably apply to Threads if the platform’s search functionality is expanded. Google implemented a similar restriction shortly after.

Meta employed the same technique in Australia when a similar law was passed in 2022.

Despite the unraveling of Twitter under Elon Musk’s ownership — something which Mosseri has conceded was an impetus behind the launch of Threads — government agencies, politicians, and journalists rely on the platform to disseminate breaking news and emergency notifications.

Meta did not immediately respond to a request for further comment.
What comes up must come down — at least in the case of user engagement on Threads, Meta’s new Twitter competitor.

Last week, the text-based social media platform reported a record 100 million sign-ups in just five days, but according to data from Sensor Tower and Similarweb, the service has seen some dropoff in growth and engagement.

“The Threads launch really did ‘break the internet,’ or at least the Sensor Tower models,” Anthony Bartolacci, managing director at Sensor Tower, a marketing intelligence firm, told CNBC. “In the 10-plus years Sensor Tower has been estimating app installs, the first 72 hours of Threads was truly in a class by itself.”

But, he added, Sensor Tower data suggests a significant pullback in user engagement since Threads’ launch: On Tuesday and Wednesday, the platform’s number of daily active users were down about 20% from Saturday, and the time spent for user was down 50%, from 20 minutes to 10 minutes.

“These early returns signal that despite the hoopla during its launch, it will still be an uphill climb for Threads to carve out space in most users’ social network routine,” Bartolacci said. “The backing of Meta and the integration with Instagram likely gives Threads a much higher flood than other services, but it will need a more compelling value proposition than simply ‘Twitter, but without Elon Musk.’”

Data from Similarweb, a digital data and analytics company, showed similar trends. Threads saw a dropoff of more than 25% in daily active users between its July 7 peak and Monday for Threads users on Android phones worldwide. The company is not yet finished calibrating its model with iOS data.

Similarweb data also suggested that usage time dropped by more than half, with the average amount of time U.S. users spent on the app dropping from about 20 minutes on July 6 to just over 8 minutes on July 10.

“We did see engagement drop somewhat over the weekend, and on Monday we estimate Threads had 36.6 million active users on Android,” David Carr, senior insights manager at Similarweb, told CNBC, adding, “While there was intense interest in checking out the app initially, not every user has made a habit of visiting Threads as often as they might other social apps.”

Since its debut on July 5, Threads made headlines for its Instagram sign-up integration, algorithmic feed and positive sentiment from advertisers. Within one day of Threads’ launch, The Verge reported that users had already posted more than 95 million posts and 190 million likes, based on internal company data it had viewed.

Threads is still in its extremely early days, and it’s natural for a sign-up boom to taper off as users explore a new service and whether the community, and the topics it pushes, are a fit.

A Meta spokesperson noted, “While it’s early days, we’re excited about the initial success of Threads, which has surpassed our expectations. We launched the app just over a week ago, and our focus now is on ensuring stable performance, delivering new features and continuing to improve the experience in the coming months.” The company also noted that CEO Mark Zuckerberg has commented on Threads that most of its growth to 100 million sign-ups was organic, not the result of promotions.

Adam Mosseri, head of both Instagram and Threads at Meta, has been vocal about the fact that he does not plan to prioritize news or politics on the new platform, meaning that it may not serve as an apples-to-apples Twitter replacement for some power users.

“Politics and hard news are inevitably going to show up on Threads - they have on Instagram as well to some extent - but we’re not going to do anything to encourage those verticals,” Mosseri wrote on Threads.

“Meta only needs 1 in 4 Instagram users to use Threads monthly for it to be as big as Twitter,” Jasmine Enberg, principal analyst at Insider Intelligence, said in a statement.

“Some of the engagement Threads has enjoyed seems to have been siphoned straight from Twitter,” Similarweb’s Carr told CNBC. “In the first couple of days of peak Threads activity, last Thursday and Friday, Twitter web traffic was down about 5% from the same days of the previous week. These are admittedly very early indicators, but they do show Threads has the potential to steal significant usage away from Twitter, particularly as the Threads app team starts to fill in missing features like hashtags and topical search.”
Meta’s new text-based social media app Threads launched a highly requested new feature Tuesday: a “Following” tab.

The new tab allows users to see chronological posts from people they follow instead of the less cohesive, algorithmically curated content that appears in the “For you” feed. Many users have been asking Meta executives such as CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Instagram chief Adam Mosseri for the feature since Threads first launched earlier this month.

“Ask and you shall receive,” Zuckerberg wrote in a post Tuesday.

Meta said Tuesday that the Threads update will also allow users to sort their “Activity” feed by follows, quotes and reposts, allow people to see their liked posts in their settings and translate certain posts that appear in a different language.

Many users were quick to point out that the “For you” and “Following” tabs look similar to the existing layout on Twitter, which is being rebranded to “X” as part of the latest change to the platform since Elon Musk acquired it late last year.

But the comparisons do not stop there. Threads has a strikingly similar look and feel to Twitter, as many of Twitter’s core icons and features such as character limits have been replicated on the platform. Threads has been touted by Meta executives such as Mosseri as a more positive “public square” for communities “that never really embraced Twitter.”

Threads first launched on July 5 while a series of outages and controversial rate limit policies were affecting Twitter users. The platform quickly climbed to 100 million users, though engagement on the app has since tapered.

Meta said Tuesday that it is working to deliver new features to Threads as quickly as possible.
Brian Moller is a self-described “master threader.”

Since Meta debuted Instagram Threads a day after the July 4 holiday, the radio personality and comedian, whose stage name is B Mo the Prince, has been cracking jokes and playfully bantering with other early adopters of the Twitter clone. In the past week, he’s made several quips about his new Threads compulsion taking precedence over certain life necessities, like sleep.

Moller has spent the last few years building an expansive presence on social media sites like TikTok, Instagram and YouTube as a creator of short comedy sketches, making fun of Gen Z and millennials and how they perceive one another. He now has roughly 3 million followers across social media and online video platforms.

The one major app that’s eluded him: Twitter.

“The vibe was off,” Moller said, regarding the reception to his jokes and posts about comedy sketches on Twitter. “It’s not really the platform for that.”

Power Instagram users like Moller are a big reason why Threads raced to the top of the downloads charts to become one of the fastest-growing consumer apps ever, topping 100 million users in its first week. With Twitter sputtering due to technical glitches and Elon Musk’s erratic behavior turning away many former loyalists, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg pounced on the opportunity to kick a rival while it was down.

The hard part is keeping users.

Threads skyrocketed out of the gate in large part because it was easy for existing Instagram users to create accounts on the new messaging service and connect with their established following. But the app is already showing signs of waning momentum, with online analytics firms Sensor Tower and Similarweb reporting a drop in engagement.

Moller is exploring how Threads could become a central service to his online existence and a potential avenue for reaching a bigger audience. He’s hoping that Threads has staying power and that people will continue to open the app throughout the day to engage with his jokes and other forms of entertainment.

Earlier this week, Meta rolled out its first big update to Threads, adding features that make it easier to see followers and a translate button so users can read text in other languages.

Still, Threads lacks key enhancements that could help creators build their audiences on the app beyond their existing Instagram following, said Caspar Lee, whose YouTube channel has more than 6.6 million subscribers. There’s not even a website for users to access via desktop.

“Threads is the really good looking new kid in class that everyone wants to talk to,” said Lee, who also has a venture firm and is co-founder of marketing firm Influencer. “Then over the next few weeks they got to work out whether there’s anything more to them.”

Currently, Threads users are unable to search for topics or hashtags that represent hot topics. The feed is algorithmic, based on who a user follows and content recommended by Instagram. There’s a feel of randomness and unorganized chaos to it. You’re not really part of a conversation.

“That’s a big thing that’s on Twitter, that’s on TikTok and YouTube, that you can jump on a topic, trend and you can get loads of people following you and consuming your content,” Lee said. “It’s going to be interesting to see if people can go from the initial boost they had in the first few days to a continuous growth in the next few months.”

Instagram executives have started by positioning Threads as a kinder alternative to Twitter, discouraging chatter about news and politics and focusing more on entertainment and lifestyle content. Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, said Threads can cater to people interested in topics like fashion, sports, music and beauty who have never found like-minded communities on Twitter.

Conflict is a major draw on Twitter, which is often used by high-profile politicians to tout their views and slam those of their rivals.

Lee even created a popular YouTube video five years ago in which he read “mean tweets” with comedian Jack Whitehall. The video has been viewed more than 1 million times.

Moller said he finds Threads to be more welcoming than Twitter and enjoys being able to scroll through and post without having to engage in real-time arguments. One of the few things he does on Twitter is read about sports. Even then, comments can be “so argumentative” that they’re off-putting, he said, adding that the combative nature of discussions has only increased since Musk acquired the company late last year.

Threads, at least so far, “doesn’t have the same vitriol,” he said.

Marcel Floruss, a fashion influencer with over 580,000 Instagram followers and more than 1 million YouTube subscribers, says it was a “smart move” for Meta to try capturing disillusioned Twitter users as well as people who have have deserted the app.

However, he’s still trying to understand how Threads can help him. Floruss built an influencer career by giving fashion advice and tips, and he never found a way to “offer any value on Twitter,” which he says is more for news, live events and politics.

On Stories, Instagram’s time-limited messaging tool that’s akin to Snapchat, Floruss can share tips along with photos. He also creates content for TikTok, Instagram’s short-video service Reels, Snapchat and YouTube. Floruss said he’s going to “play around” with Threads, but he’s not ready to make it a priority given how much time he spends elsewhere.

“The potential benefit is outweighed by the amount of work that I feel like I need to put in,” he said.

Floruss isn’t alone in taking a wait-and-see approach.

Chas Lacaillade, CEO of influencer talent agency Bottle Rocket Management, said many of his creator clients are holding off with Threads until the app shows it can be a place that can bolster their careers.

“They aren’t looking to go zero to 100 miles on this other thing,” Lacaillade said. “It’s so important not to discredit what you got in search of something that is unproven or is the flavor of the month.”

Creators, Lacaillade said, would rather spend their time deepening existing relationships instead of working on a new social media service that could quickly lose steam.

Threads “had this really splashy entrance,” Lacaillade said. The true test, he said, will be Meta’s ability to find sustained momentum.

As it stands now, creators don’t have a way to monetize their presence on Threads. There’s no advertising, so brands aren’t looking for influencer partners, and it’s not clear if Threads can turn into a channel to help them steer people to sites where they can sell merchandise or promote their Patreon pages, he said.

A Meta spokesperson said in an email that the company’s priority “is to build consumer value first and foremost” in order “to explore how to build business value in a way that doesn’t compromise the consumer experience.” 

The spokesperson also pointed to Mosseri’s previous public statements describing how Instagram “has been entirely focused on keeping the lights on and fixing bugs, but we’re starting to priorite the obvious missing features, like a following feed, the edit button, and post search.”

Creators say YouTube remains the No. 1 outlet for influencers to build lasting careers.

“What other platform outside of YouTube has the ability to keep you or any viewer interested for longer than 30 seconds?” Floruss said. “You have the attention of people that’s worth a lot of money to advertisers.”

While Twitter struggles with advertisers, the site is trying to gain relevance among creators. The company recently began paying some verified users when ads are served in their conversations. That could entice some people to use Twitter over Threads, said Tameka Bazile, who works in artist relations and marketing at Time.

Bazile noted that some Twitter users have posted that they’ve received payments as high as $35,000, and she said that could be an attractive way to draw in “micro-influencers” or “nano-influencers,” who lack big audiences but have established some name recognition in certain communities.

“The creator economy is starving for regular monetization,” she said.

Twitter hasn’t revealed some important details of how it’s paying certain creators like the percentage revenue share they’re getting from ads, industry experts said.

Brendan Gahan, a partner and chief social officer at ad agency Mekanism, said Twitter’s system needs some transparency.

“It feels like right now Twitter has just granted a bunch of random accounts,” Gahan said.

Twitter didn’t provide a comment for this story.

Sasha Kaletsky, co-founder and managing partner of Creator Ventures, said in an email that it’s “almost impossible” for Twitter’s recent influencer payment plans to compete with brand deals from Instagram or YouTube.

Like with Threads, creators will wait to see how Twitter works for their peers before “spending much more time making content there,” Kaletsky said.

Marketing influencer Jack Appleby said his income is derived from a mix of brand sponsorships on platforms like Twitter and LinkedIn and his own newsletter as well as from speaking engagements.

For Threads to become important to creators, Appleby said the app needs to have better analytics so they can measure engagement and prove to brands that they have reach.

Appleby likes how Threads allows for posts to be up to 500 characters, which he said lets him write more complete thoughts. Tweets max out at 280 characters, except for paying subscribers, who can write messages with up to 25,000 characters. Appleby said he definitely doesn’t need that much space.

“My hope is that Threads allows us to like be a little more human,” he said.

As for Moller, the comedian, he’s hoping Threads continues to feel playful and fun. With time and some clever features, perhaps the engagement will be strong enough that it can help his entertainment career.

“This came along, and I was like, I’m sure Zuckerberg is not putting out something half-assed,” he said.
Twitter’s lawyer wrote a letter to Facebook parent Meta on Wednesday, accusing the company of “systematic” and “unlawful misappropriation” of trade secrets following the launch of its Threads service.

The letter from longtime Elon Musk attorney Alex Spiro alleged that Meta’s new Twitter clone was built by former Twitter employees “deliberately assigned” to develop a “copycat” app. Semafor was first to report on the letter.

Spiro offered no concrete examples of Twitter employees using trade secrets to build the app, which notched millions of users within hours of its launch. But the message — sent on same day that Threads opened to the public — shows Musk’s level of concern given Meta’s userbase and technical capacities.

“No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee,” Andy Stone, Meta communications director, posted on Threads. “That’s just not a thing.”

Since Musk’s $44 billion purchase of Twitter in October, the site has been riddled with challenges, including some advertisers suspending their campaigns. Musk has dramatically downsized the company, leaving it slow to respond to glitches.

Spiro said Meta is “expressly prohibited” from crawling or scraping Twitter’s follower data, without providing evidence that Meta has engaged in that activity. Musk previously alleged that scraping of Twitter user data occurred on a large scale, though he, too, neglected of show specific examples.

On Thursday, Twitter’s new CEO Linda Yaccarino tweeted that the company was “often imitated,” a clear reference to Threads.

Threads has already launched with representation from major brands and celebrities. The app still lacks some critical features, including a web app, and isn’t yet generating revenue.
User traffic on Twitter has slowed since the launch of Meta’s text-based platform Threads, which has already surpassed 100 million sign-ups since its debut last week.

Threads launched in the U.S. on Wednesday and is being touted by Meta executives like Instagram chief Adam Mosseri as a more positive “public square” for communities “that never really embraced Twitter.” So far, users seem to be on board.

“Threads reached 100 million sign ups over the weekend. That’s mostly organic demand and we haven’t even turned on many promotions yet. Can’t believe it’s only been 5 days!” Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post Monday.

Twitter appears to have taken a hit. Matthew Prince, CEO of Cloudflare, shared a screenshot to Twitter Sunday showing that traffic on the platform was “tanking.”

According to Similarweb, a data company that specializes in web analytics, web traffic to Twitter was down 5% for the first two full days Threads was generally available compared with the previous week. The company said Twitter’s web traffic is down 11% compared with the same days in 2022.

Twitter responded to CNBC’s request for comment with an automated response. Meta didn’t offer additional comment beyond Zuckerberg’s post.

The booming growth on Threads is helped by the fact that it is tied to an existing social network, Meta’s Instagram. Users can sign up with their existing handles on Instagram and are able to retain some of their following as others sign up for the app.

Threads reached the 100 million milestone even faster than OpenAI’s generative chatbot ChatGPT, which surpassed 100 million monthly users in two months.

The app still has lots of room to grow, having not yet launched in Europe, where Mosseri said there is still some regulatory complexity to navigate. If Threads is able to retain its userbase, it could solidify its position as a real competitor for Twitter, which reported nearly 238 million monetizable daily active users in its last quarterly earnings report as public company last summer.

Twitter owner Elon Musk appears to have already shown some concern about Threads, as his longtime lawyer Alex Spiro wrote a letter to Meta accusing the company of “unlawful misappropriation” of trade secrets.

Musk and Zuckerberg were also taking shots at one another over the weekend, as Zuckerberg mocked Musk’s tweet style and Musk called Zuckerberg a derogatory name.
New York

One of Elon Musk’s least-favorite Twitter users is moving to Meta’s competing platform Threads.

Jack Sweeney — the 20-year-old Florida college student who started the ElonJet Twitter account that used a bot to track the location of Musk’s private jet using publicly available data — started an account named “elonmusksjet” on Threads last week soon after Meta launched the platform.

Sweeney’s project gained notoriety in early 2022 when Musk offered him $5,000 to stop posting his plane’s location, and the student replied with a request for $50,000. Musk, who was worth more than $200 billion at that time according to estimates, turned down his request.

In December after Musk bought Twitter, he permanently suspended Sweeney’s ElonJet account, claiming it posed a security threat to him and family members by revealing their locations in real time. The account had amassed more than 500,000 followers at the time it was suspended.

Sweeney’s new Thread account already has 80,000 followers, he told CNN on Monday.

“This is the most I’ve had since my Twitter account was suspended,” he said. “There’s still a lot of people who are interested in this.”

Meta (FB), which also owns Facebook and Instagram, had 70 million Thread sign-ups in less than 48 hours. Sweeney told CNN the had a Threads account within hours of when it first became available, because it was easy to set up using his existing Instagram Elon jet account.

24-hour delay account
Sweeney has continued to tweet the location of Musk’s jet with a 24-hour delay, using the account ElonJetNextDay, though that account has a far more modest 25,600 followers.

Musk had said a 24-hour delay of flight information would be allowed under Twitter’s new rules set up to suspend ElonJet. And Sweeney continues to tweet under a personal account, using it to announce the move of ElonJets to Threads.

The first Threads post on the elonmusksjet account was one announcing that ElonJet had landed on Threads, followed by one asking Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg if the account could stay.

But the elonmusksjet account was temporarily blocked, according to a posting on Sweeney’s personal Threads account, which included a screenshot of message he received from Threads telling him the elonmusksjet account was active once again following a requested review.

“We’re sorry we got this wrong,” said the message. “Sometimes we need to take action to help keep our community safe.”

Sweeney said Meta didn’t provide specifics for the temporary halt to his new Threads account, but he assumed it was triggered automatically and not due to a specific individual making a decision.

“It said something about account integrity,” he said. “Maybe it’s because I had Elon Musk’s name in the account name.”

Since then the Threads account has tracked one Musk flight, from Austin to Brownsville, Texas three days ago.

Sweeney also operates a separate a Threads account called zuckerbergjet, but it has yet to track any flights since it went live on Threads at the same time elonmusksjet did. He also has accounts that track the private planes of Amazon (AMZN) founder Jeff Bezos, former president Donald Trump, Taylor Swift and Kim Kardashian as well as the state of Florida plane used by Gov. Ron DeSantis, as well as some other celebrities.

“It doesn’t take that much time. Most of it is just development time, doing research to find someone’s jet,” he said. “Otherwise it operates by itself, pretty much.”
Meta has made cuts to its teams that tackle disinformation and coordinated troll and harassment campaigns on its platforms, people with direct knowledge of the situation told CNN, raising concerns ahead of the pivotal 2024 elections in the US and around the world.

Several members of the team that countered mis- and disinformation in the 2022 US midterms were laid off last fall and this spring, a person familiar with the matter said. The staffers are part of a global team that works on Meta’s efforts to counter disinformation campaigns seeking to undermine confidence in or sow confusion around elections.

The news comes as Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is celebrating the unparalleled success of its new Threads platform, surpassing 100 million users just five days after launch and opening a potential new avenue for bad actors.

A Meta spokesperson did not specify, when asked, how many staffers had been cut from its teams working on elections. In a statement to CNN on Monday night, the spokesperson said, “Protecting the US 2024 elections is one of our top priorities, and our integrity efforts continue to lead the industry.”

The spokesperson did not answer CNN questions about what additional resources had been deployed to monitor and moderate its new platform. Instead, Meta said the social media giant had invested $16 billion in technology and teams since 2016 to protect its users.

But the decision to lay off staffers ahead of 2024, when elections will not only take place in the United States but also in Taiwan, Ukraine, India and elsewhere, has raised concerns among those with direct knowledge of Meta’s election integrity work.

The disparate nature of Meta’s work on elections makes it difficult for even people inside the company to say specifically how many people are part of the effort. One group of relevant employees hit harder by the layoffs were “content review” specialists who manually review election-related posts that may violate Meta’s terms of service, a person familiar with the cuts told CNN.

Meta is trying to offset those cuts by more proactively detecting accounts that spread false election-related information, said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the press.

For years, the social media giant has invested heavily in teams of personnel to root out sophisticated and coordinated networks of fake accounts. That “coordinated inauthentic behavior,” as Meta calls it, began in the lead up to the 2016 election when an infamous Russian government-linked troll operation ran amuck on Facebook.

The team tasked with combating the influence campaigns – which includes former US government and intelligence officials – has been generally seen as the most robust in the social media industry. The company has published quarterly reports in recent years that expose governments and other entities found to have been operating covert campaigns pushing disinformation on Meta’s platforms.

Those teams investigating disinformation campaigns now must further prioritize which campaigns and countries to focus on, another person familiar with the situation said, a trade-off that could result in some deceptive efforts going unnoticed.

The person emphasized that Meta still has a dedicated team of professionals working on these issues, many of whom are widely respected in the cyber and information security communities.

But while artificial intelligence and other automated systems can help detect some of these efforts, unearthing sophisticated disinformation networks is still a “very manual process” that involves intense scrutiny from expert staff, another person with direct knowledge of Meta’s counter disinformation efforts told CNN.

The person said they feared Meta was regressing from progress it had made from learning from past mistakes. “Lessons that were learned at great costs,” they said, citing the company’s 2018 admission that its platforms were used to incite violence in Myanmar.

In addition to its in-house team, Meta and other social media companies rely on tips from academics and other researchers who specialize in monitoring covert disinformation networks.

Darren Linvill, a professor at Clemson University’s Media Forensics Hub, said he has sent the company valuable tips in recent months, but Meta’s response time has slowed significantly.

Linvill, who has a long track record of successfully identifying covert online accounts, including helping to unearth a Russian election meddling effort in Africa in 2020, said that Meta recently removed a network of Russian language accounts that were posting both pro and anti-Ukraine content on Facebook and Instagram.

“They were trying to stoke anger on both sides of the debates,” he said.

Launched last Thursday, Threads has become an instant success with celebrities, politicians, and journalists flocking to the platform.

The new Twitter-style app is tied to users’ existing Instagram accounts, rather than being linked directly to Facebook. Currently, Threads shares the same community standards as Instagram, but the platforms differ on issues relating to Meta’s methods to combat disinformation.

Meta also applies labels to state-controlled accounts on Facebook and Instagram, such as Russia’s Sputnik news agency and China’s CCTV. However, these labels do not appear on state-controlled accounts on Threads.

The launch of Threads even as Meta trims its disinformation-focused personnel comes at a turbulent and transformative time for those tasked with writing and implementing rules on social media platforms.

Elon Musk, the billionaire who bought Twitter last year, has all but torn up that platform’s rule book and gutted the team that worked on implementing policies designed to combat disinformation efforts.

Last month, YouTube, which has also made job cuts, announced it would allow videos that feature the false claim the 2020 US presidential election was stolen, a reversal of its previous policy.

The rule reversals come as the Republican-controlled House of Representatives investigates interactions between technology companies and the federal government.

Last week, a federal judge in Louisiana ordered some Biden administration agencies and top officials not to communicate with social media companies about certain content, handing a win to GOP states in a lawsuit accusing the government of going too far in its effort to combat Covid-19 disinformation.

The restrictions and the scrutiny could give cover to social media companies that may want to pull back on some of their platforms’ rules around election integrity, said Katie Harbath, a former Facebook official who helped lead the company’s global election efforts until 2021.

“I can [almost] hear [Meta Global Affairs President] Nick Clegg saying that ‘we’re going to be cautious of what we do, because we wouldn’t want to run afoul of the law,’” Harbath said.
Facebook has tried to compete with Twitter in numerous ways over the years, including copying signature Twitter features such as hashtags and trending topics. But now Facebook’s parent company is taking perhaps its biggest swipe at Twitter yet.

Meta on Wednesday officially launched a new app called Threads, which is intended to offer a space for real-time conversations online, a function that has long been Twitter’s core selling point.

The app received 30 million sign-ups as of Thursday morning, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on his verified Threads account.

The app appears to have many similarities to Twitter, from the layout to the product description. The listing, which first appeared earlier this week as a teaser, emphasizes its potential to build a following and connect with like-minded people.
“The vision for Threads is to create an option and friendly public space for conversation,” Zuckerberg said in a Threads post following the launch. “We hope to take what Instagram does best and create a new experience around text, ideas, and discussing what’s on your mind.”

He also responded to posts and shared his thoughts on whether Threads will ever be bigger than Twitter.

“It’ll take some time, but I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it. Twitter has had the opportunity to do this but hasn’t nailed it,” Zuckerberg wrote on Threads. “Hopefully we will.”

The app’s listing describes it as a place where communities can come together to discuss everything from the topics they care about today to what’s trending.

“Whatever it is you’re interested in, you can follow and connect directly with your favorite creators and others who love the same things — or build a loyal following of your own to share your ideas, opinions and creativity with the world,” it reads.

Meta said messages posted to Threads will have a 500 character limit. The company said it was bringing the app to 100 countries via Apple’s iOS and Android.

After downloading the app, users are asked to link up their Instagram page, customize their profile and follow the same accounts they already follow on Instagram. The look is similar to Twitter with a familiar layout, text-based feed, the ability repost and quote other Thread posts. But it also blends Instagram’s existing aesthetic and offers the ability to share posts from Threads directly to Instagram Stories. Verified Instagram accounts are also automatically verified on Threads. Thread accounts can also be listed as public or private.

The new app joins a growing list of Twitter rivals and could pose the biggest threat to Twitter of the bunch, given Meta’s vast resources and its massive audience.

It also comes amid heightened turmoil at Twitter, which experienced an outage over the weekend, followed by an announcement that the site had imposed temporary limits on how many tweets its users are able to read while using the app.
Twitter owner Elon Musk said these restrictions had been applied “to address extreme levels of data scraping and system manipulation.” Commenting on the launch of Threads Monday, he tweeted: “Thank goodness they’re so sanely run,” parroting reported comments by Meta executives that appeared to take a jab at Musk’s erratic behavior.

Since acquiring Twitter in October, Musk has turned the social media platform on its head, alienating advertisers and some of its highest-profile users. He is now looking for ways to return the platform to growth. Twitter announced Monday that users would soon need to pay for TweetDeck, a tool that allows people to organize and easily monitor the accounts they follow.

Twitter is also attempting to encroach on Meta’s domain. In May, Twitter added encrypted messaging and said calls would follow, developments that could allow the platform to compete with Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, also owned by Meta.

The escalating rivalry between the two companies only appears to have added to the rivalry between Musk and Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg.

In response to a tweet last month from a user about Threads, Musk wrote: “I’m sure Earth can’t wait to be exclusively under Zuck’s thumb with no other options.” In a followup tweet, Musk teased the idea of a cage match with Zuckerberg.

Zuckerberg fired back in an Instagram story by posting a screenshot of Musk’s tweet overlaid with the caption: “Send Me Location.”

And after the Threads app debuted, Zuckerberg tweeted an image of two cartoon Spider-Men pointing at each other.
London
 
The rivalry between Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk has just kicked up a notch.

Zuckerberg’s Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, has teased a new app that is set to take on Twitter by offering a rival space for real-time conversations online.

The app is called Threads and it is expected to go live Thursday, according to a listing in the App Store. The app appears to have many similarities to Twitter — the App Store description emphasizes conversations, as well as the potential to build a following and connect with like-minded people.
“Threads is where communities come together to discuss everything from the topics you care about today to what’ll be trending tomorrow,” it reads.

“Whatever it is you’re interested in, you can follow and connect directly with your favorite creators and others who love the same things — or build a loyal following of your own to share your ideas, opinions and creativity with the world.”

The move by Meta comes amid a fresh bout of turmoil at Twitter, which experienced an outage over the weekend, followed by an announcement that the site had imposed temporary limits on how many tweets its users are able to read while using the app.

Musk, the platform’s billionaire owner, said these restrictions had been applied “to address extreme levels of data scraping and system manipulation.”

Commenting on the launch of Threads Monday, Musk tweeted: “Thank goodness they’re so sanely run,” parroting reported comments by Meta executives that appeared to take a jab at Musk’s erratic behavior.

Since taking Twitter private in October, Musk has turned the social media platform on its head, alienating advertisers and some of its highest-profile users.
He is now looking for ways to return the platform to growth. Twitter announced Monday that users would soon need to pay for TweetDeck, a tool that allows people to organize and easily monitor the accounts they follow.

Twitter is also attempting to encroach on Meta’s domain.

In May, Twitter added encrypted messaging and said calls would follow, developments that could allow the platform to compete with Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, also owned by Meta.

Musk and Zuckerberg’s rivalry could soon extend beyond business and into the ring. Last month, the two men discussed the possibility of a cage fight, with the Las Vegas arena that hosts the Ultimate Fighting Championship seemingly the favorite location for the match.
New York
CNN
 — 
Meta’s Twitter rival app Threads on Tuesday rolled out its first major batch of updates since its launch two weeks ago as it works to maintain momentum.

The new features include a translation button and a tab on users’ activity feed dedicated to showing who’s followed them, according to a post from Cameron Roth, a software engineer working on Threads.

All new features should be available to iOS Threads users by the end of Tuesday, Roth said.

Threads users have been clamoring for updates since its launch. The new app attracted over 100 million user sign-ups in less than a week, but it still lacks many of the features popular on Twitter and other platforms, including direct messaging and a robust search function.

User engagement on Threads has dipped since its first week, according to web traffic analysis firm Similarweb. And Meta executives have teased plans to improve the app in hopes of getting users to keep coming back.

“Early growth was off the charts, but more importantly 10s of millions of people now come back daily … The focus for the rest of the year is improving the basics and retention,” Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a Threads post Monday.

Tuesday’s updates also include the ability to subscribe and receive notifications from accounts a user doesn’t follow and a “+” button that lets users follow new accounts from the replies on a post, as well as bug fixes and other improvements.

Instagram head Adam Mosseri, who is overseeing Threads, has also hinted at plans to introduce a desktop version of the app as well as a feed of only accounts a user follows and an edit button.
Washington

In less than 48 hours, Meta’s Twitter rival Threads has surpassed 70 million sign-ups, upended the social media landscape and appears to have rattled Twitter enough that it is now threatening legal action against Meta.

But even as users signed up for Threads in droves, with some clearly eager to flee the chaos of Elon Musk’s Twitter, the sudden success of Meta’s app could raise a new set of concerns.

Meta has long been criticized for its market dominance, and for allegedly trying to choke off competition by copying and killing rival applications. Now, some competition experts and even some Threads users worry that if the new app’s traction continues, it may simply lead to the accumulation of even more power and dominance for Meta and its CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
“The prospect of total monopoly by Meta, yikes,” wrote one user. “It’s a real problem for society when a few dozen people and companies own every single thing so that no alternative paradigms can exist that they don’t co-opt from the cradle,” replied another.

Twitter had always been much smaller than Meta’s platforms, but it had an outsized influence in tech, media and politics. As Twitter faltered under Musk, though, a cottage industry emerged of smaller apps trying to capture some of its magic. Now more than any of them, Meta seems best positioned to claim the crown.

Threads’ blockbuster launch this week highlights the uncomfortable reality of the modern digital economy: To potentially beat some of the biggest players in the industry, you might have to be a giant yourself.

The power of Instagram
The overnight success of Threads is a testament both to the dissatisfaction with Musk’s ownership of Twitter and to the unique power and reach of one of Meta’s most important properties: Instagram.

Instagram has more than two billion users, far more than the 238 million users Twitter reported having in the months before Musk took over. When new users sign up for Threads, which they do using an Instagram account, the app prompts them to follow all of their existing Instagram contacts with a single tap. It’s optional, but is easy to accept, and it takes a conscious decision to decline.

By promoting Threads through Instagram, and by sharing Instagram user data with Threads to let people instantly recreate their social networks, Meta has significantly greased the onboarding process. That frictionless experience has allowed Threads to leapfrog what’s known in the industry as the “cold start” problem, in which a new platform struggles to gain new users because there are no other users there to attract them.

Thanks to the Instagram integration, “that biggest problem, the chicken-egg problem, has been solved from the jump,” Reddit co-founder and venture investor Alexis Ohanian said in a video Thursday (posted, naturally, on Threads).

That Threads appeared to clear that hurdle easily, Ohanian said, makes him “bullish” on the new app.

Competition concerns
But that same innovation that made signing up so many users so quickly may raise competition concerns, particularly in Europe where new antitrust rules for digital platforms are set to go into effect in a matter of months.

“From a competition perspective this can be problematic because Meta can use it to leverage its market power and raise barriers to entry, as other rivals would not have the customer base Meta has via Instagram,” said Agustin Reyna, director of legal and economic affairs at the Brussels-based consumer advocacy organization BEUC.
Under the EU’s Digital Markets Act (DMA), “digital gatekeepers” — a term that’s expected to cover Meta and/or its subsidiaries — will be prohibited from combining a user’s data from multiple platforms without consent, Reyna said. Another restriction forbids requiring users to sign up for one platform as a condition of using another.

Instagram CEO Adam Mosseri appeared to acknowledge those issues this week in an interview with The Verge. Threads won’t be launching in the EU for now, he said, because of “complexities with complying with some of the laws coming into effect next year” — a statement The Verge suggested was a reference to the DMA.

The DMA was passed specifically to deal with the antitrust concerns raised by large tech platforms. That Threads apparently cannot (yet) comply with rules designed to protect competition underscores uncertainty about the app’s potential competitive impact.

Meta’s approach to Threads could also revive longstanding criticisms about the company’s alleged practice of copying and killing rivals, particularly as Twitter has warned Meta it may sue over claims of trade secret theft (an allegation Meta denies).

The issue isn’t limited to the realm of social media. As the world races to develop artificial intelligence, Threads represents a huge new opportunity for Meta to gather training data for its own AI technology, in a way that could help it catch up to industry leaders such as OpenAI and Google. That could complicate any attempt at a comprehensive analysis of what Threads means for competition in tech.

An uncertain impact on advertisers and users
Part of what makes the debate so complicated is Threads’ seemingly very real threat to Twitter.

If Threads puts pressure on Twitter to improve its service, that is a form of competition between apps, said Geoffrey Manne, founder of the Portland, Oregon-based International Center for Law and Economics.

But, he added, if it leads to a concentration of power in the social media industry more broadly, it could mean a reduction in competition overall. It all depends on how you define the market.

“I’m inclined to say it does both simultaneously, and the ultimate consequences aren’t so clear,” Manne said.

Rather than viewing it through the lens of a social media market, one helpful way to look at the issue is from the perspective of the advertising market, he said. It’s possible that once Threads introduces advertising — which Zuckerberg has said won’t happen until the app has increased to significant scale — Threads simply reinforces Meta’s advertising market power, Manne said. That could lead to further antitrust scrutiny for Meta even if the question about competition in social media is ambiguous.

Jeff Blattner, a former DOJ antitrust official, said it can only benefit consumers to have Threads as a rival to Twitter.

“Two platforms run by maniac billionaires are better than one,” he wrote on Threads — though if Threads is so successful as to effectively knock out Twitter altogether, then in some ways the original question about Meta’s dominance will still stand.

An olive branch
Threads has one thing going for it that may nip any competition concerns in the bud: A commitment to integrate with the same open protocols used by other distributed social media alternatives, such as Mastodon.

That would give users the option to migrate their accounts, along with all their follower data intact, to a rival like Mastodon that isn’t controlled by Meta.

While that interoperability isn’t available yet, Mosseri has repeatedly highlighted it as a priority on his to-do list.

When and if it happens, that could be a significant step. What may appear now as an audience grab by Meta could someday wind up being how millions of people were onboarded to a massive, decentralized social networking infrastructure that is not controlled by any single company, individual or organization.

“This is why we think interoperability requirements are so important,” said Charlotte Slaiman, a competition expert at the Washington-based consumer group Public Knowledge. If users could port their entire social graph from one rival to another whenever they wanted, she said, “we could have more fair competition based on the quality of the product, not just incumbency advantage.”


New York

Two weeks after Meta launched its Twitter competitor Threads and received an unprecedented amount of user signups, the frenzy around the app appears to have come back to Earth.

After surpassing 100 million user sign-ups in less than a week, user engagement on Threads has slowed. Threads daily active users fell from 49 million on July 7, two days after its launch, to 23.6 million users last Friday, according to a report published this week by web traffic analysis firm Similarweb. The app’s average usage time also fell from 21 minutes to 6 minutes over the same timeframe.

The slowdown hints at the challenges ahead for Meta as it looks to not only draw users away from Twitter but build a service that reaches a far larger audience. Threads is already facing some of the common issues that often plague social media platforms, including user retention, spam and some early regulatory scrutiny around its approach to content moderation. It’s also not clear yet how much Meta’s investments in building Threads will actually amount to financial returns for the company.

“I’m very optimistic about how the Threads community is coming together,” Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post on the platform Monday. “Early growth was off the charts, but more importantly 10s of millions of people now come back daily … The focus for the rest of the year is improving the basics and retention.”
Meta executives acknowledged in the early days after Threads’ launch that getting users to sign up for a buzzy new app is much easier than convincing them to continue engaging there long-term. That’s likely even more true for Threads, which launched as a relatively bare-bones app in an effort to capitalize on a moment of weakness at Twitter and also tapped into Instagram’s network to ease the sign-in process.

Threads on Tuesday rolled out its first batch of updates to the iOS version of the app, including a translation button, a tab on users’ activity feed dedicated to showing who’s followed them and the option to subscribe and receive notifications from accounts a user doesn’t follow.

Instagram head Adam Mosseri, who is overseeing the Threads launch, has also hinted at plans to add features such as a desktop version of the app, a feed of only accounts a user follows and an edit button. “We’re clearly way out over our skis on this,” Mosseri said in a Threads post the week of the app’s launch.

In the meantime, Threads is grappling with a common social media issue — spam. Users have complained of replies to posts filling up with spammy links and offering “giveaways” in exchange for new followers. And on Monday, Mosseri said in a Threads post that the platform was “going to have to get tighter on things like rate limits” because “spam attacks have picked up.”

This “is going to mean more unintentionally limiting active people (false positives),” Mosseri warned. “If you get caught up [in] those protections let us know.”

Meta declined to clarify whether Mosseri’s post refers to limits on users’ ability to post or read content, or to provide any additional details. But the comment did prompt some snark from Twitter owner Elon Musk, after backlash to Twitter’s own rate limits — restrictions on how many tweets users can read — helped propel Threads’ early growth.

Uncertain impact on Meta’s business
Meta shares have jumped more than 6% since the Threads launch, but some analysts who follow the company are skeptical that Threads will quickly contribute to the company’s bottom line, if at all.

Threads could be a way for Meta to eke additional engagement time out of its massive existing user base. The app could also ultimately supplement Meta’s core advertising business, which could use a boost after facing challenges from a broad decline in the online ad market and changes to Apple’s app privacy practices.
Meta executives have said they will likely incorporate advertising into the platform, once its user base has reached critical mass. But even if Threads continues to add users, “advertisers could be hesitant and possibly wait before allocating ad dollars to Threads because of their uncertainty about long-run user retention and engagement,” Morningstar senior equity analyst Ali Mogharabi said in a recent investor note.

Like Twitter, Threads could also struggle to attract advertisers because the nature of a real-time news and public conversations app means the content is sometimes negative or controversial. Even before Musk took over Twitter and alienated advertisers, the platform represented a tiny piece of the ad sales market compared to Meta’s properties.

Threads, however, likely has a leg up on Twitter because Meta is known as a company that provides clear value for advertisers, said Scott Kessler, global tech sector lead at research firm Third Bridge. If anything, he said, the risk may be that some advertisers may think twice about spending on yet another Meta platform versus diversifying their ad strategy.

For now, analysts will be awaiting Meta executives’ commentary about Threads during its quarterly earnings call next week, including to see if they offer any hints about whether ads may be rolled out on the app ahead of the crucial holiday shopping season.

“They launched this in July,” Kessler said. “That should give them enough time to build out sufficient tools for holiday shopping season advertising.”
Twitter is threatening Meta with a lawsuit after the blockbuster launch of Meta’s new Twitter rival, Threads — in perhaps the clearest sign yet that Twitter views the app as a competitive threat.

On Wednesday, an attorney representing Twitter sent Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg a letter that accused the company of trade secret theft through the hiring of former Twitter employees.

The letter was first reported by Semafor. A person familiar with the matter confirmed the letter’s authenticity to CNN.

The letter by Alex Spiro, an outside lawyer for Twitter owner Elon Musk, alleged that Meta had engaged in “systematic, willful, and unlawful misappropriation of Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property.”

In response to reports on the letter, Musk tweeted: “Competition is fine, cheating is not.”
The letter goes on to say that Meta hired former Twitter employees who “have improperly retained Twitter documents and electronic devices” and that Meta “deliberately” involved these employees in developing Threads.

“Twitter intends to strictly enforce its intellectual property rights,” Spiro continued, “and demands that Meta take immediate steps to stop using any Twitter trade secrets or other highly confidential information.”

Meta spokesperson Andy Stone flatly dismissed the letter. “No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee — that’s just not a thing,” he said on Threads.

In the months since Musk acquired Twitter for $44 billion, the social network has been challenged by a growing number of smaller microblogging platforms, such as the decentralized social network Mastodon and Bluesky, an alternative backed by former Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey. But Twitter has not threatened either with litigation.

Unlike some Twitter rivals, Threads has experienced rapid growth, with Zuckerberg reporting 30 million user sign-ups in the app’s first day. As of Thursday afternoon, Threads was the number-one free app on the iOS App Store.

The legal threat may not necessarily lead to litigation but it could be part of a strategy to slow down Meta, said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond.

“Sometimes lawyers, they threaten but don’t follow through. Or they see how far they can go. That may be the case, but I don’t know that for sure,” Tobias told CNN. He added: “There may be some value to tying it up in litigation and complicating life for Meta.”
Washington
 — 
Twitter has weathered months, if not years, of mismanagement as well as mass layoffs, frequent service disruptions and an exodus of top advertisers, but the launch of a rival app from Meta could prove to be the final straw.

Threads surpassed 100 million users this weekend, less than a week after it launched, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced Monday, marking a staggering feat for any social network and one that puts it on pace to rapidly pass Twitter’s audience size.

Meanwhile, multiple internet traffic analysts reported noticeable declines in Twitter usage in just the past few days. The results underscore the risk Meta poses to Twitter’s business and raise questions about how, or if, Twitter can stem its losses.
Twitter traffic had already been trending downward for months, according to data from the internet infrastructure company Cloudflare and the web analytics firm Similarweb. But the pace of decline appears to have accelerated in recent days, both companies said, likely reflecting strong interest in Threads and a mass migration from the platform owned by Elon Musk to the one run by Zuckerberg.

Twitter didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

On Sunday, Cloudflare CEO Matthew Prince shared a chart showing Twitter’s popularity relative to other websites it tracks. “Twitter traffic tanking,” Prince said as he posted the chart.

The chart showed that in January, Twitter was ranked 32nd on the list; the next month, it had fallen to 34th. For much of the spring, Twitter fluctuated between 35th place and 37th. But the beginning of July showed a rapid falloff in popularity, as Twitter plunged to 40th place. (Cloudflare defines popularity as the “size of a population of users that look up a domain per unit of time.”)

Similarweb told CNN Monday it has witnessed comparable trends in Twitter traffic.

“In the first two full days that Threads was generally available, [last] Thursday and Friday, web traffic to twitter.com was down 5% compared with the same days of the previous week and down 11% compared with July 6 and 7, 2022,” said David Carr, a senior insights manager at Similarweb. “We’ve been reporting for a while that Twitter is down compared with last year – June traffic was down 4% – but Threads seems to be taking a bigger bite out of it.”

Bolstering the traffic reports were the anecdotal experiences of some Threads users. Alex Stamos, director of the Stanford Internet Observatory, said Saturday he ran an “unscientific test” of how the same post he shared on Twitter, Threads and Mastodon, another rival, performed with his audience over a 23-hour period.

The identical content Stamos created on each platform saw significantly more engagement on Threads than on Twitter as measured by likes and replies — despite having a fraction of his usual reach on the newer platform, he said.

Stamos, who has more than 100,000 followers on Twitter but only a tenth of that number on Threads, added that strong Threads engagement with his posts describing the “research” also supported the original findings. The quality of the replies to his posts were also much higher on non-Twitter platforms, he observed.

“From my perspective, Twitter is done as a platform for serious tech conversations,” Stamos said, who previously was the chief security officer at Facebook.

A Twitter rival but not quite a Twitter replacement
Fueling Threads’ rapid growth has been Meta’s use of Instagram as a springboard to sign up new users, along with what many Threads users have identified as a dissatisfaction with Twitter.

Threads started out with a number of celebrity accounts prepopulating its platform but has since gained additional high-profile users including Kim Kardashian and Jeff Bezos. An account that had been banned from Twitter that tracks the movements of Musk’s private jet has also joined the new platform.

More than 100 US lawmakers have signed up as well, Axios reported last week, though few world leaders appear to be on Threads at the moment.

Zuckerberg and Instagram head Adam Mosseri have emphasized that Threads is about more than replacing Twitter and that the app seeks to tap audiences outside of Twitter’s traditional user base. That means Threads will not actively elevate news or political content, Mosseri said, describing those topics as “not at all worth the scrutiny, negativity (let’s be honest), or integrity risks that come along with them.”

Over the weekend, Mosseri’s stance on news and politics triggered a debate over Threads’ approach to those topics. Some users praised it as a way to make the platform more accessible to average users, who may never have embraced Twitter before. Others argued that many of the topics Mosseri characterized as non-political, including music, fashion and entertainment, are their own source of news and can be inherently political.

Even as Meta’s executives look to put some daylight between Threads and Twitter, the rapid rise of Threads only appears to have deepened Musk’s longtime feud with Zuckerberg. The app’s launch prompted threats of litigation as Twitter has accused Meta of trade secret theft, not to mention talk of a physical cage fight between Musk and Zuckerberg.

On Sunday, Musk, who is known for erratic behavior and incendiary remarks, made it even more personal as he lobbed a sexual insult at Zuckerberg and proposed comparing the size of their respective genitalia.

Zuckerberg has not directly responded to the insult. But after a Threads user pointed out that the new app was not featured in Twitter’s trending topics tab, Zuckerberg replied “Concerning” with a crying-laughter emoji. And he used the same emoji to reply to a post by the fast-food brand Wendy’s, which had suggested Zuckerberg should “go to space just to really make him mad lol.”
Facebook-parent Meta officially launched its Twitter competitor, Threads, last Wednesday, after first confirming its plans for the app just three months ago.

Threads is already off to a strong start: it received 100 million sign-ups in less than a week, the app shows, including a large number of brands, celebrities, journalists and many other prominent accounts.

The mood on Threads on the night of its launch felt a bit like the first day of school, with early adopters rushing to try out the app and write their first posts — and some questioning whether the app could end up being the “Twitter killer.” As of Thursday morning, Threads was the top free app on Apple’s App Store and a top trending topic on Twitter.

Threads could pose a serious threat to Twitter, which has faced backlash since Elon Musk took over the platform in October 2022 and has run it with a fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants approach. But Twitter has become particularly vulnerable in recent days, angering users over a temporary limit on how much content users can view each day. And for Meta, Threads could further expand its empire of popular apps and provide a new platform on which to sell ads.

Here is everything we know so far about Meta’s Threads:
What is Threads?
Threads is a new app from the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp. The platform looks a lot like Twitter, with a feed of largely text-based posts — although users can also post photos and videos — where people can have real-time conversations.

Meta said messages posted to Threads will have a 500-character limit. Similar to Twitter, users can reply to, repost and quote others’ Threads posts. But the app also blends Instagram’s existing aesthetic and navigation system, and offers the ability to share posts from Threads directly to Instagram Stories.
Thread accounts can also be listed as public or private. Verified Instagram accounts are automatically verified on Threads.

“The vision for Threads is to create an option and friendly public space for conversation,” Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a Threads post following the launch. “We hope to take what Instagram does best and create a new experience around text, ideas, and discussing what’s on your mind.”

Some users did experience occasional glitches and issues getting content to load in the early hours after Threads launched, but that is to be expected when millions of users are joining and using an app at once.

How do you sign up? (And can you leave?)
Users sign up through their Instagram accounts and keep the same username, password and account name, although they can edit their bio to be unique to Threads. Users can also import the list of accounts they follow directly from Instagram, making it super easy to get up and running on the app.

But it’s not quite so easy to leave Threads. While users can temporarily deactivate their profiles via the settings section on the app, the company says in its privacy policy that “your Threads profile can only be deleted by deleting your Instagram account.” Some users have also raised concerns about the amount of data that the Threads, like Instagram, can collect about users, including location, contacts, search history, browsing history, contact info and more, according to the Apple App Store.

Where is Threads available?
Threads is available in 100 countries and more than 30 languages via Apple’s iOS and Android, according to the company.

Could Threads be the ‘Twitter killer’?
Threads is just the latest platform launched in recent months in hopes of unseating Twitter as the go-to app for real-time, public conversations. But it may have the greatest chance at success.

Many Twitter users have expressed desire for an alternative since Musk took over the platform late last year. Frequent technical issues and policy changes have sent some noteworthy Twitter users heading for the exits.

Meta has at least one significant leg up on Twitter: the size of its existing user base. Meta is hoping to capture at least some of its more than 2 billion global active Instagram users with the new app. That’s compared to Twitter’s active user base, which is somewhere around 250 million.

“It’ll take some time, but I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it,” Zuckerberg said in a Threads post. “Twitter has had the opportunity do this but hasn’t nailed it. Hopefully we will.”
On Wednesday, a lawyer representing Twitter sent a letter to Meta alleging intellectual property theft and threatening a lawsuit over Threads. Meta pushed back at the allegations.

And in a tweet on Thursday, Twitter’s new CEO Linda Yaccarino appeared to acknowledge the rival app’s launch, calling Twitter “irreplaceable.”

“We’re often imitated — but the Twitter community can never be duplicated,” she said.

Meta’s existing scale and infrastructure could play to its advantage. Whereas many of the other Twitter competitors rolled out in recent months have required users to join waitlists or receive invitations to sign up, only to have to work to recreate their network on the new site, Threads makes it remarkably easy for users to get started.

But Instagram CEO Adam Mosseri noted in a video posted to the platform that the challenge for new social media platforms often is not getting users to sign up, but rather keeping them engaged long-term.

In particular, Meta will have to work to prevent spam, harassment, conspiracy theories and false claims on Threads, issues that have caused many users to sour on Twitter. The new platform’s launch comes after Meta laid off more than 20,000 workers starting last November, including user experience, well-being, policy and risk analytics employees. It also comes as campaign season for the 2024 US Presidential election ramps up, with some experts warning of an incoming wave of misinformation. Meta says its Community Guidelines will apply to Threads, just like its other apps.

What else is in it for Meta?
For Meta, Threads could be a way of eking additional engagement time out of its massive existing user base.

Although there are no ads on the platform just yet, Threads could also ultimately supplement Meta’s core advertising business. Meta’s ad business could use a boost after facing challenges from a broad decline in the online ad market and changes to Apple’s app privacy practices, although, if Twitter’s history is any guide, the format is unlikely to attract as many ad dollars as Meta’s other platforms.

For Zuckerberg, though, the real draw may be in attempting to best his rival, Musk, with whom he has in recent weeks been making plans to engage in a cage fight. Perhaps winning in the battle of social networks is even better.

What’s next for Threads?
Despite its early success, Threads remains a relatively bare bones app. It’s still missing many of the features users like about Twitter, such as a desktop version, direct messaging, trending topics and the option to edit posts.

But Meta executives have already teased plans to continue building out Threads.

Mosseri has suggested in Threads posts in recent days that the platform is working to eventually roll out hashtags, a more robust search function, a feed of only accounts a user follows and potentially direct messaging.
Mark Zuckerberg’s rival social network is first serious threat to Twitter since Elon Musk takeover

If Threads truly is a Twitter-killer then it claims it is going to do it with “kindness”. Mark Zuckerberg, whose company Meta launched the rival platform this week, put forward the idea that positivity would be a big difference for a product that looks remarkably similar to its rival.

“We are definitely focusing on kindness and making this a friendly place,” he wrote on his Threads account.

He added that Twitter had underachieved because it failed to stay positive and that being “friendly” would be key to the success of the new service, although one amicable exchange between the Meta chief and a mixed martial arts professional on Thursday served as a reminder to users that Zuckerberg recently accepted Elon Musk’s offer of a cage fight.

Turning negative into positive
The focus on positivity, from a company well used to content controversies of its own, is a telling indication of how the tech industry views Twitter’s performance under Musk’s ownership. Twitter is threatening to sue Meta over what it has described as a “copycat app” but if there is one thing Zuckerberg is keen to avoid replicating, it’s the negativity stalking that platform.

When Musk took over Twitter in a $44bn (£38bn) deal last October, the self-described “free speech absolutist” destabilised the company’s public image in two key ways: by making a series of changes, such as swingeing job cuts and imposing viewing limits, that created damaging headlines while also appearing to affect the platform’s performance; and antagonising its liberal user base by reinstating the accounts of controversial figures such as the misogynist influencer Andrew Tate, alongside acts such as unilaterally banning journalists before rowing back and reinstating them.

Rebecca McGrath, a technology analyst for the market research firm Mintel, says app users are historically reluctant to change their platform choices entirely, which in normal circumstances would not bode well for Threads. However, she says Musk has created “a unique opportunity” for Zuckerberg by unleashing a wave of controversy and platform changes since the takeover.

“Once a platform becomes part of our lives, we don’t really move away from it. But this is a unique situation where Twitter has become so controversial it has opened up a gap in the market that did not exist before.”

However, there is potential for a storm over Threads too, with concerns raised about its links to Instagram, which has been criticised by internet safety campaigners such as the Molly Rose Foundation over content that is harmful to children.

‘The network effect’

Threads now needs to capitalise on Twitter’s weakness by ensuring that it becomes a Twitter-like platform for splashy announcements and news, McGrath adds, mainstays of the public conversation that Zuckerberg is seeking to host.

“There is a range of people on Twitter who use it as their first port of call to communicate with the public – such as commentators, journalists, influencers, politicians. So it is very important that Threads gets these high-profile users and content creators using it.” Achieve that and users will follow, says McGrath.

Threads is linked to Meta’s Instagram platform and gives new users, who need an Instagram account to log on, the opportunity to kickstart their personal social network on Threads by populating their account with Threads users who they already follow on Instagram.

It is an example, says the tech analyst Benedict Evans, of how to “cold start an empty network”. He adds: “The crucial thing is the network effect. Whatever you want to talk about or read about, Twitter is the place for public conversations. And you can’t just move to a new empty network, because there’s no one else there.”

Instagram has more than 2 billion users, which helps explain how Threads has exceeded 70m sign-ups in less than 48 hours since its launch. “Threads is designed to go viral by embedding your Instagram followers into the app,” says Mike Proulx, a research director at the analysis firm Forrester.

Musk says under his ownership Twitter has grown users, to more than 250 million, and hate speech and misinformation have been tackled – although there are studies that have a different perspective on post-takeover moderation standards.

The battle for ad revenue
Those concerns about the platform becoming an overly toxic environment have struck at the revenue stream at the heart of Twitter’s business model: advertising. In 2021 Twitter reported that advertising accounted for 90% of the company’s $5.1bn in annual revenue.

After the takeover, concerns over moderation standards and a botched relaunch of Twitter’s subscription product led to advertisers either pausing spending or reducing it sharply. In March Musk said he expected annual revenue to come in at $3bn this year, indicating a heavy decline in ad spending.

Destruction of Twitter’s advertising base is an existential threat for a historically loss-making company that, post-takeover, must service a $13bn debt burden at a cost of $300m per quarter. If Zuckerberg’s kindness could kill, then so could a lack of advertiser cash. It prompted Musk to warn soon after the takeover that bankruptcy was a possibility, although he said recently the company had a chance of going cashflow positive (and thus generating some money to help service those debts).

The arrival of Threads adds to that pressure, and threatens to compound some of Musk’s missteps, by offering an alternative platform for advertisers. They must wait, though, after the Instagram boss, Adam Mosseri, said Meta wanted to get the platform right before launching advertising on it. Referring to putting ads on the platform, he told the tech news site The Verge: “Honestly, we’re not focused on it at all right now.”

Advertising experts say this at least gives Twitter some breathing space. “In the long run Threads is a threat because of the scale of Instagram and the amount of discipline and rigour that Zuckerberg will bring that Musk does not,” says Lou Paskalis, the chief executive of the advertising consultancy AJL Advisory.

But Twitter’s new chief executive, the highly rated advertising boss Linda Yaccarino – “the most trusted person in advertising” according to Paskalis – will have time to restore trust in the platform while Threads stays away from adverts for now.

Paskalis adds that the audience on Instagram is different, being less focused on Twitter’s basic staples such as breaking news. Mosseri said to users on Threads this week that the app was about “what public conversations you want to have” and if you did not want to engage in digital “back and forth” then you were probably better off posting on Instagram.

“The audience [on Instagram] is massive in scale but it’s not the same kind of community,” says Paskalis. This will also buy time for Twitter. But he adds: “The minute Threads starts taking advertising, we will see if it’s a mortal threat to Twitter.”

Other rival platforms
The emergence of Threads means that the other threats to Twitter, the decentralised competitors such as Mastodon and BlueSky, are less of an issue for Musk. Mastodon has about 13 million users while BlueSky, backed by the Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey, is an invite-only app that had to pause sign-ups at one point last weekend after Musk’s decision to impose tweet-viewing limits created a flurry of interest.

But neither are at the scale of Threads, let alone Twitter, plus the decentralised model – Mastodon is made up of thousands of “instances” that host different communities – can be confusing for users, although Threads has pledged to adopt the same technology as Mastodon so you could theoretically take your Threads content elsewhere.

Threads, backed by Meta’s knowhow, and infrastructure, is the first serious threat to Twitter since it was bought by Musk. Underneath the kindness is, as ever, Zuckerberg’s competitive aggression.


The blandness of the Threads experience makes me yearn for the trolls of Twitter

What if someone invented Instagram without the cute golden retriever photos, without any of the fun? What if someone invented Twitter without any of the serious and snarky back-and-forth about news, politics, ideas, or essential information about weather or pandemics.

Someone did. That someone is the one company that didn’t have to do much to continue to dominate the world of social media and online advertising: Meta. The largest and richest social media company in the world and one of the most powerful surveillance and propaganda forces in the world, has introduced something that almost looks and feels like Twitter and almost looks and feels like Instagram.

It’s called Threads, and it hit a record by gathering more than 100m registrations in its first five days of existence. Of course, it did this by inviting its 1.8 billion Instagram users to use those credentials and import followers from Instagram to Threads. So it was easy. Easy ain’t always interesting, though. And there is hardly anything interesting about the technology or the content on Threads.

When I open up Threads all I see is a series of posts that read like fortune cookies. They are a series of positive affirmations. It’s lots of people offering therapeutic salves that purport to help everyone. One of the first Threats (the best thing I can think of to call a post on Threads) I read was: “Today’s Reminder: Don’t forget to take a deep breath.” A few scroll motions later I found: “Broken crayons still color.” The vapidity of the Threads experience makes me yearn for the trolls of Twitter.

One might assume that Meta chief executive Mark Zuckerberg wants to muscle in on the revenue Twitter makes – or, more accurately, made before Elon Musk put himself into massive debt to buy it. But Twitter, even in its better days, never made money. It was a dumb business and it’s just getting dumber. Meta, with more than three billion users across four of the top-six social media platforms in the world, did not need this tiny sliver of attention and the revenue that might come from it. Twitter, after all, never cracked the top ten platforms in the world. It never had more than 250 million users. And it could never figure out how to sell advertisements well.

Meta knows how to grow and how to place ads that get clicked. But all it can do now, with Twitter fading, is eat into its own revenue from its more successful platforms. It’s not clear what the point of Threads is to the company. And it’s even more baffling to think about what it means to us.

Ask yourself: “What purpose did Twitter serve in my day, back when it had interesting people writing interesting things?”

If you felt like having an argument or just learning the latest thing about the latest thing, Twitter was a good way to do those things. Many people erroneously deemed Twitter as a “public square”. It was neither public nor square. It perhaps simulated what some people imagined might happen if we had such a thing as a global public sphere. But it was and is commercial and very limited in what it could offer to anyone who wished to inform, learn, or persuade. While millions might be using Twitter at any one time, one’s Tweets would only flow in the feeds of a few dozen, maybe hundreds. Occasion Tweets would rocket around within language groups if many people liked or re-Tweeted them. But that was unpredictable and unsystematic. That’s no way to run an information machine.

That’s because Twitter never was an information machine. It was and is an emotion machine. Its fundamental emotion is indignation. We all overdid it with indignation in the best days of Twitter. Even nice people over-indulged, which is why it was ultimately corrosive to public deliberation and civic virtue. Journalists, pundits, elites, and activists thrive on indignation. But so do trolls, harassers, and Nazis.

#BlackLivesMatter, the main and perhaps sole positive consequence of Twitter’s time on Earth, was a function of focused, enlightened, justified indignation. Those who promoted and rallied around that hashtag did so consciously and provocatively, leveraging the nature of Twitter’s design toward the goal of breaking through the fog of political and social ennui. #BlackLivesMatter was the exception, and remains exceptional. But to happen at all, Twitter had to be designed to allow for the tracking and search of hashtags.

On Threads, there are no hashtags. Meta has opted not to facilitate them, so there is no way the heart of Twitter could happen on Threads.

Instagram head and Threads founder Adam Mosseri says algorithms won’t promote serious or political content. “We are definitely focusing on kindness and making this a friendly place,” he wrote on his Threads account.

“The goal is to create a public square for communities on Instagram that never really embraced Twitter and for communities on Twitter (and other platforms) that are interested in a less angry place for conversations, but not all of Twitter,” Mosseri wrote in a conversation on Threads with a reporter. “Politics and hard news are inevitably going to show up on Threads – they have on Instagram as well, to some extent – but we’re not going to do anything to encourage those verticals.”

Mosseri does not want negativity spoiling his platitude party. Twitter was designed to amplify indignation. Threads has been designed to impede indignation. Without indignation, what’s the point? But indignation and negativity are not the same thing. One (and one’s deliberative community) can be harshly critical, negative about some injustice or trend or power, and still uphold the sorts of civil decorum that invites more voices rather than repels them.

If you were to create a digital public square you would have to engage smaller communities of users, generate strong community standards of deliberation and standards of discourse, and give up on the idea of a global network. There are virtues to anarchistic global networks with billions of users who write in more than 100 languages, but they are not the virtues of community nor of a “public square.” Squares don’t fit around globes. Networks of billions are something, but they are not town meetings. And even town meetings are more often than not counterproductive, draining, distracting, and destructive.

The challenge of generating the quality and quantity of public deliberation among engaged citizens has been occupying theorists and practitioners for more than 200 years. No coder in Silicon Valley is going to build the thing that lifts us from this cacophony. So far, all the things tech giants have brought us have contributed to cacophony and undermined democracy.

Content moderation is crucial to fulfilling the goal of “free speech.” Cacophony and trolling erode the power of speech and silence the vulnerable. Now devoid of responsible content moderation, Twitter is overrun by NSFW content, Nazis, and trolls. It still has many millions of interested and interesting users, but those who should be (and were) verified for their prominence to limit the influence of those who would mimic and misrepresent them. Instead, Musk has decided to lie about verification and grant the blue check mark that used to indicate verification to those willing to pay money.

Twitter is eating itself with a series of bad decisions. While many proclaim Threads as the “Twitter killer”, the real Twitter-killer app is Twitter itself.

Earlier this week, Taliban-affiliated leader Anas Haqqani declared his preference for Musk’s Twitter over Threads. “Twitter has two important advantages over other social media platforms,” Haqqani wrote on Twitter. “The first privilege is the freedom of speech. The second privilege is the public nature & credibility of Twitter. Twitter doesn’t have an intolerant policy like Meta. Other platforms cannot replace it.” That might be all you need to know about Elon Musk and 2023 Twitter. If the Taliban prefers it, you and I and every decent person probably should not.

The moral of this saga is that no one can nostalgically replicate the experience of Twitter circa 2011 to 2021, just as no one can replicate the web of 1996-2001 or the blogosphere of 2004-09 before Twitter wiped it out. The internet is never the same river twice.

By the way, I just made a bet, pledging to give $100 to the charity of writer Jeff Yang’s choice if Threads reaches 200 million daily active users by July 2025. He’s convinced it will thrive. I am convinced it will fade.
Meta has been struggling with layoffs, a fledgling metaverse and a decreasing audience. The company needs its new big bet to pay off.

Meta has launched a “Twitter killer” app, a nearly direct copy of the microblogging platform that was built to lure users away from the increasingly dysfunctional Elon Musk-owned company. But will it bring Meta the boost it has been looking for?

Experts say it may.

It’s certainly not the first time Meta has borrowed features from competitors or duped them outright – the company copied Snapchat with its Instagram stories feature and TikTok with its short form video tool Reels. But Threads has the potential to be Meta’s most successful attempt at emulating existing popular tech, said Ari Lightman, professor of digital media at Carnegie Mellon University’s Heinz College.

“If they execute correctly, tying in all the successful aspects of the platforms and leveraging some of the volatility at Twitter, they could actually have a shot,” he said. “Taking into consideration what they’ve learned in the past, Meta is really more of a grown-up organization. They’re understanding how to maneuver some of these waters a little bit more adeptly than they’ve done in the past.”

Success for Meta is key and the company bet big on Threads’ rollout. Meta has been struggling in recent years. The company laid off more than 20,000 workers over the past year. Its signature metaverse project has not taken off. The company has struggled to compete with newer platforms, as it fails to capture the demographic of younger users who prefer YouTube and TikTok. And it has faced multiple congressional inquiries following whistleblower revelations about its more toxic inner workings. Meanwhile, it stands to lose billions of dollars over changed policies in Apple’s App store that emphasize privacy and cut into Meta’s key business model of tracking user behavior for ad sales.

Threads launched with very few glitches and was noted for its smooth interface and intuitive user experience, suggesting a more well thought out product than past Meta ventures. Twenty-four hours after its launch, it boasted 30m downloads, according to the company, apparently making it the most rapidly downloaded app ever.

Zuckerberg believes the app can sustain that momentum, stating in a post on Threads that he envisions a future with more than 1bn users. Much of that success will depend on whether Threads can find its place in the online culture, bridging the freewheeling and text-focused energy of Twitter with the more idyllic, photo-centric world of Instagram.

“Twitter’s appeal is not the ‘functionality’ which Threads is obviously imitating, but the network and the culture,” said Drew Margolin, assistant professor of communication at Cornell University. “I’m not sure how Meta can re-create this. It would need to create the sense that this was the place to be heard because this was the place where the people whose opinions matter pay attention.”

Meta could also face potential roadblocks in the form of antitrust measures and other regulatory actions. At a time when big tech is facing unprecedented action after years of unabated growth, Meta’s attempt to go big with yet another platform is a gamble.

“There are genuine antitrust concerns with Threads, particularly in Europe, where EU regulators are more aggressive than their US counterparts,” said Paul Barrett, deputy director of the NYU Stern Center for Business and Human Rights.

With that in mind, Meta has not yet introduced Threads in Europe, where the company is still navigating the region’s new Digital Markets Act, a law passed in 2022 that targets “gatekeepers” in the tech ecosystem. Its inability to launch in that market, where Instagram has more than 280 million users, could have a big impact on Threads’ success moving forward.

Twitter on Thursday threatened to sue the company, accusing it of violating Twitter’s “intellectual property rights”.

The true measure of success for Threads will be whether it is able to monetize in the future, experts say. Thus far, there are no advertisements on the platform, but Zuckerberg said in a post that the company plans to explore monetization after it reaches 1 billion users. Advertisers have been fleeing Twitter as it descends into chaos, with more than half of its top 1,000 advertisers having left since Musk took over. If Threads can be seen as a viable alternative, Meta could have a real chance of unseating Twitter, said Jasmine Enberg, a principal analyst at market research firm Insider Intelligence.

“Once Meta reaches scale and begins to monetize, that’s going to hit Musk where it hurts,” Enberg said. “After months of not spending on Twitter, many advertisers have realized that they don’t need Twitter to reach their goals. Twitter ads will be an even harder sell when there’s a Meta-owned app that is perceived as an alternative.”

Thus far, with millions of users signing up almost immediately after launch, Threads represents a legitimate threat to Twitter, experts concurred.

“The metaphorical cage match has started and Zuckerberg has delivered a major blow,” said Enberg.

“Meta only needs one in four Instagram users to use Threads monthly for it to be as big as Twitter, and Meta has the scale, resources and execution strategy to make that happen,” Enberg said. “The simplicity of the onboarding process, the app’s easy-to-use interface, and Meta’s promise of a saner, kinder place than Twitter have already supercharged signups.”

She added: “It’s not a deadly punch to Twitter, but Musk needs to watch his back.”
Meta wants its new rival to be a friendly, news-free space. But with missing features, it might not leave Elon Musk’s platform in the dust quite yet

It feels as if the death of Twitter has been greatly exaggerated since Elon Musk took ownership of the company. Indeed, it’s not Musk, but Meta’s launch of Threads – which has 100 million-plus users in a matter of days – that could be the biggest threat to Twitter at present. Threads, though, appears to be a very different social media beast. For starters, Meta’s response to Twitter is accessed through your Instagram account, meaning you can automatically follow the accounts you already follow on Instagram. And though it looks quite similar to Twitter, with short text-based posts, it differs in key ways.

Friendly and news-free

Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg hasn’t been shy in explaining where he thinks Twitter has failed, saying that the platform had underachieved due to the amount on hostility on Twitter. He’s said that his aim will be to grow Threads to be big but friendly. Is it possible to have a town square without everyone yelling at each other?

Instagram’s Adam Mosseri, meanwhile, said that news and politics will not be as prominent, which seems to go against the idea of such a site. It seems Meta wants to send the message straight away that this isn’t your live news source – which is arguably the one thing Twitter always got right until recently.

Despite this, politicians and news outlets are already joining Threads and beginning to work it into their social media routine. But as long as there is an algorithmically determined feed on the site, Meta controls how much of that content we see. Publications discovered that the hard way a few years ago when Facebook deprioritised news from its feeds. The company also recently gutted its own news teams.

Can Instagram influencers make good threads?

Since Threads is accessed with an Instagram account, people who have a large following on the photo-sharing app are converting that to a large following on Threads. But what works for a visual-based platform doesn’t translate well to a text-based one.

One of the jokes made about Musk buying Twitter is that he’s the world’s biggest reply guy trying desperately to be a poster. And in Threads, we’re now seeing what happens when influencers also suddenly have to learn how to post. The app already has a whole bunch of inspirational “live, laugh, love”-style quotes often found on Instagram. They look out of place, though, in a text-focused app where the cynical and comedic shine. This will probably change if the non-Instagram-famous posters build followings on Threads, but it’s not a great start.

Is Threads shredding Twitter?

There are signs Threads is at least starting to hit Twitter. Matthew Prince, the CEO of internet infrastructure company Cloudflare, said that Twitter’s traffic levels have been tanking since the start of this year, with the biggest dip in July. In addition to threatening to sue Meta over Threads, Musk’s posting through it all is also a sign it’s getting under his skin. After the app was launched, Musk tweeted: “Competition is fine, cheating is not.” (As my colleague Johana Bhuiyan reported, Twitter does not appear to have provided evidence of Meta having access to its IP or trade secrets.)

Love it, or leave it

One of the biggest hurdles for any new user on a social media platform is finding all the accounts you used to follow on other sites. If you leave Twitter, of course, you leave behind all the accounts you used to follow. So potentially one of the best features going for Threads will be its portability, something taken from Mastodon. Meta aims to incorporate the ActivityPub protocol into Threads to allow you to not only communicate with those on other fediverse servers (ie Mastodon users) but transfer your account and followers to services that allow you to port over.

Brands are flocking to Threads, even though Meta says it will not put ads on the platform for at least this year. One of the things that prompted advertisers to pause their advertising on Twitter was the shift in moderation and allowing far-right agitators back on to the platform. You can still see those on Threads – because they’ll go where the audience is – but might find their posts being more censored than they were on Twitter.

Which is a good thing, except that overall the experience feels much more corporatised than before. Twitter, brought to you by McDonald’s.

For all the talk about wanting a platform less toxic than Twitter, the overemphasis on moderation also has one big distinction from Twitter: no adult content. One of the big changes on the internet in the past few years was after adult content was banned on Tumblr, it moved to Twitter. Twitter had mostly turned a blind eye to it under the former administration, aside from shadow-banning accounts posting adult content (that is making people log in to see the posts, and making the accounts hard to find via search). None of that is allowed on Threads from the outset, just like Instagram.

The bigger discussion here is how long it would have remained on Twitter anyway. Several countries including the US, the UK and Australia have introduced online safety laws and regulation looking to put in more age verification and other restrictions on such sites, and at any time Apple could have turned to Twitter and threatened removal from the app store.

Maybe it’ll remain on Twitter, or one of the others will fill the gap. But Threads won’t be it.

Missing features

Threads is still missing much of what makes Twitter Twitter. There are no hashtags to find like-minded communities. There’s no direct messaging, no desktop version, and no way to view only the feeds of people you follow. Many of these features are coming soon (except for DMs, according to Forbes) but will people stick around for that long to wait for it?

Clearview who?

Some of Meta’s rivals, including Jack Dorsey’s spin-off Bluesky, collect far less user data than Threads does, and Meta’s track record in what it does with that data should give us pause. Concerns over whether Threads can comply with EU data privacy rules is why the app hasn’t launched in the European Union yet. Many might make the calculation that if they’re already in the Zuckerverse, by using Instagram or Facebook, then what is one more app? But some people might pause and wonder if it’s worth giving Meta more data and making them even more powerful.

More Threads

Much digital ink has been spilled over the fastest-downloaded app in history. To cut through, here are a few key pieces, starting with an explainer I wrote and global technology editor Dan Milmo’s survey of the first serious threat to Twitter since Elon Musk took over. Finally, Kari Paul, in San Francisco, asks if Threads will flip the fortunes of a flailing Facebook. John Naughton, meanwhile, wonders where all the journalists and politcos will go if Threads does indeed manage to take down Twitter.

Finally, the Guardian’s media editor Jim Waterson has an insightful review of the new app and the internet landscape we’re now in, writing: “Threads’s launch might be just be another step in the disintegration of the social media scene of the 2010s and its rebirth as a more sanitised advertiser-friendly environment, rather than a messy free-for-all discussion.”
Site has potential to suck the remaining life – and advertising revenue – out of Musk’s struggling network

Imagine a social network where users have invested so much social capital in putting up data about themselves that it is impossible to imagine them leaving. Moving to a new site would be an enormous risk for users because you would lose your network of friends. The network’s entire existence, the theory goes, is secured by these barriers to starting afresh at a new outlet.

This was how the Guardian described Myspace in 2007, when the early social network had 150 million global users, a number so large it was considered improbable that they would ever move elsewhere. (In the end Myspace was soon overtaken by Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook, Rupert Murdoch lost almost all the money he spent buying the site, and Myspace’s once-ubiquitous founder Tom Anderson has travelled the world on the profits ever since.)

Sixteen years later, Elon Musk’s Twitter is also testing the theory that people remain loyally addicted to their favoured social network until suddenly, one day, they give up and move elsewhere. This weeek Zuckerberg launched Threads, a new platform aimed at winning over people who, in the words of one executive, want somewhere a bit like Twitter that is “sanely run”.

After a day using Threads, one thing is pretty clear: it is not Twitter. But Threads has the potential to be something different and powerful: Twitter with fewer rough edges, more corporate sheen, and enough potential to suck the remaining life – and advertising revenue – out of Musk’s struggling network.

The biggest difference is that Threads feels substantially less confrontational, less aggressive, and less based around shouting at strangers with different political views than Twitter. The racism, antisemitism, transphobia and general abuse that is prevalent on Twitter is just nowhere near as visible. Zuckerberg told a user on the site that this was a design feature: “The goal is to keep it friendly as it expands … That’s one reason why Twitter never succeeded as much as I think it should have, and we want to do it differently.”

Threads has also solved the problem of starting a social network from scratch by borrowing an existing one from Instagram. Any existing Instagram user can sign up and swiftly reconnect their followers on the photo-sharing app, meaning Threads is not plagued by the sense that you’ve just turned up at a new school without friends. (In a strange benefit of Brexit for British users, EU countries are currently banned from signing up to Threads due to this feature potentially breaching Brussels’ data rules.)

The flipside is that, at the moment, no one is entirely sure why they are using Threads. Broadly speaking, three groups are dominating the site: users known for posting photos on Instagram that have unexpectedly gained an enormous audience on a text-centric app; social media managers at companies desperate to retain relevance by jumping on the hot new thing; and people fleeing Twitter’s increasingly toxic environment. All of them have a different idea of what they want from the site. A large chunk of the first day’s posts consisted of people asking why they had signed up.

Threads also lacks the immediacy of Twitter, with the app’s main news feed currently only featuring an algorithmically generated summary of recent posts. Until this feature is changed to allow users to prioritise material published in the last few minutes, it limits the site’s use as a home for breaking news. When Keir Starmer was heckled at an event in Gillingham on Thursday morning, the clip was immediately all over Twitter. But it was far less visible on Threads, which also currently lacks a text search function.

Instead, Threads is more like a cross between Twitter and Instagram, with a TikTok-style focus on juicing engagement from posts. You are more likely to see a funny post from the Archbishop of Banterbury meme account than an earnest discussion about a political intervention by his Church of England equivalent.

All of this is bad news for Twitter under Musk, which could retreat even further into being a home for rightwing libertarians arguing over culture war topics. At its best, the experience of being on Twitter in the mid-2010s felt like being able to drop in on the funniest, most interesting party in town. It proved to be one of the best media regulators that has ever existed, a perfect place to rapidly call out shoddy journalism and political lies. It was not necessarily the place where the vast majority of the world found out about things – that was Facebook – but Twitter was probably where the information was posted first.

It was also perfect for building online communities around shared interests, whether that involved political news, favourite musicians, or LGBTQ+ rights. But crowding a lot of different communities with strongly held interests into the same online house party has its flaws. Anger and fury turned out to be the best way to go viral and reach an audience. Donald Trump used the site as a megaphone to swamp the media zone in his run to the White House.

Ultimately, Threads’s launch might be just be another step in the disintegration of the social media scene of the 2010s and its rebirth as a more sanitised advertiser-friendly environment, rather than a messy free-for-all discussion.

Zuckerberg said he hoped Threads would overtake Twitter’s 250 million monthly users. “It will take some time, but I think there should be a public conversation app with 1 billion+ people on it,” he said. “Twitter has had the opportunity to do this but hasn’t nailed it. Hopefully, we will.”
Tesla tycoon challenged Meta boss to a cage fight but the launch of Twitter’s rival this week may provide the real action

Elon Musk recently challenged Mark Zuckerberg to a physical cage fight – but the real battle between the two billionaires will begin on Thursday when Zuckerberg launches Threads, his company’s Twitter competitor.

Zuckerberg’s Meta believes there is a gap in the market for a Twitter-style social network for short posts that is technically stable and isn’t subject to the whims of Musk, who despite being one of the world’s richest men spends a considerable amount of time engaged in disputes on social media.

Threads was unveiled to Meta staff last week, with the chief product officer, Chris Cox, saying the company had been working on the new product since January, according to an internal briefing reported by the Verge.

Cox said the company had already approached prominent figures such as Oprah Winfrey to see if they will jump ship to the new site: “We’ve been hearing from creators and public figures who are interested in having a platform that is sanely run, that they believe that they can trust and rely upon for distribution.”

The comment appeared to get under Musk’s skin, with the Twitter owner breaking away from preparations for his fight to comment about Threads: “Thank goodness they’re so sanely run.”

Threads is expected to have a similar feel to Twitter but is branded as “Instagram’s text-based conversation app”, with preview screenshots suggesting users will be able to use their existing Instagram login details, easing the sign-up process.

Twitter claims to have enlisted about 250 million global users, substantially fewer than the billions who use Facebook and Instagram, but has long punched above its weight in terms of global influence on the news agenda.

Yet the site is creaking since the Musk takeover. The Tesla chief executive spent much of 2022 trying to back out of his $44bn (£34.5bn) bid to buy the social network, eventually completing his debt-laden purchase of the social network last October.

Since then he has fired the vast majority of Twitter’s staff, unwound policies designed to stop hate speech, and watched as mainstream advertisers flee the platform – a problem for a company that still derives most of its money from advertising. He has also shifted to a business model where users have to pay for verified status, meaning users who refuse to cough up are less likely to find an audience for their tweets – and enabling people intent on self-promotion to essentially buy a prominent position on the site, regardless of the quality of the posts.

Over the weekend the already-unstable Twitter started to fall apart at the seams, with the site becoming inaccessible for many users. Musk said he had chosen to limit the number of posts that non-paying users could view to 600 a day in an attempt to stop unauthorised third-party access of his site. An alternative explanation is that Twitter simply was forced to take emergency steps as its servers struggle to cope with demand. Whatever the real reason, it essentially made the site unusable for most of the heavy users who produce the vast majority of the site’s content.

Attempts to seek an explanation on any of these policy moves are impossible, since Musk has fired all of Twitter’s communications staff. Journalists who ask the company to explain its actions now receive an automatic reply featuring a poo emoji.

Mike Proulx, vice-president at market research firm Forrester, said the weekend’s chaos had been “remarkably bad” for users and advertisers.

“Advertisers depend on reach and engagement yet Twitter is currently decimating both,” he told AFP.

Zuckerberg has long been fascinated by Twitter’s influence and discussed buying the site back in 2008. One challenge for his Threads products will be whether people are willing to blend their Instagram profiles – often featuring personal life updates and family pictures – with more public-facing posts on sites such as Twitter. A bigger issue is whether people who have spent years building up large followings on Twitter – giving them valuable access to an audience – can be persuaded to start again on a new site.

Other Twitter rivals have also experienced rapid growth in recent days. Bluesky, which resembles a stripped-back version of Twitter, grew its user base by 20% on Monday. But the site has struggled to cope with demand and is now operating on an invite-only basis, meaning only 250,000 people have access to the service.

Despite this, the likes of Nigella Lawson and LBC presenter James O’Brien have chosen to start posting on the network – albeit to substantially smaller audiences than they could reach on Twitter.

Still, there does appear to be a demand to try Twitter alternatives. Dmitry Grozoubinski, a former Australian diplomat, posted on Bluesky about the upstart site attracting big names: “It’s just incredible that Musk has managed to damage Twitter so badly that very large accounts are willing to abandon sometimes literally millions of followers and tweet to, like, 300 folks on here. Like, business school case study incredible.”
In a letter to CEO Mark Zuckerberg, a lawyer for the Elon Musk-owned app said Meta had unlawfully misappropriated trade secrets

Twitter has threatened to sue Meta over its new Threads app, which Mark Zuckerberg has openly billed as a rival, claiming the company has violated Twitter’s “intellectual property rights”.

In a letter to CEO Mark Zuckerberg, first published by the news outlet Semafor, a lawyer for Twitter said the company “has serious concerns that Meta Platforms (Meta) has engaged in systematic, willful and unlawful misappropriation of Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property”.

“Twitter intends to strictly enforce its intellectual property rights, and demands that Meta take immediate steps to stop using any Twitter trade secrets or other highly confidential information,” Alex Spiro wrote in the letter.

Meta launched Threads, a text-based conversation app intended to rival Twitter, on Wednesday to a largely positive reception. The company said Threads garnered 30m sign-ups in less than 24 hours after launching, apparently making it the most rapidly downloaded app ever. Threads accounts are linked to Instagram profiles, making the process to sign up seamless between apps and giving the Twitter copycat a built-in user base.

Zuckerberg said Threads was Meta’s attempt at taking a shot to build a “public conversations app with 1bn+ people” – an opportunity that Twitter had but “hasn’t nailed”.

“This is as good of a start as we could have hoped for!” Zuckerberg said in a thread on Thursday.

Twitter claims in the cease-and-desist that Meta has poached dozens of former employees in the past year, some of whom “had and continue to have access to Twitter’s trade secrets and other highly confidential information” and “many” of whom have “improperly” kept Twitter documents or electronic devices.

“With that knowledge, Meta deliberately assigned these employees to develop, in a matter of months, Meta’s copycat ‘Threads’ app with the specific intent that they use Twitter’s trade secrets and other intellectual property in order to accelerate the development of Meta’s competing app, in violation of both state and federal law as well as those employees’ ongoing obligations to Twitter,” the letter reads.

“Competition is fine, cheating is not,” Musk tweeted on Thursday.

In response to the letter, Meta’s communications director, Andy Stone, posted on Threads that there are no engineers on the team that used to work at Twitter.

It is unclear what evidence Twitter has that former employees who now work at Meta continue to have access to Twitter intellectual property or trade secrets. Twitter responded to a request for comment with an automated email of a poop emoji.

Twitter also said Meta was “prohibited” from scraping data from any Twitter service. Twitter’s owner, Elon Musk, has recently made several moves to purportedly curtail any efforts to scrape Twitter data, including limiting the number of tweets users can see in a day. At the time, Musk said it was in response to companies using Twitter to train their AI models.

A cursory search of LinkedIn conducted by the Guardian found several Meta employees hired in the last year who previously worked at Twitter. However, it is fairly common for tech employees to jump from one company to another, particularly if they have worked at a social media platform.

The threat of a lawsuit over trade secret appropriation is not without precedent or consequence in the tech industry. In 2018, for instance, the Google-owned self-driving car company Waymo sued Uber over trade secrets theft, after a top executive at Waymo left the company to join Uber’s efforts to produce its own self-driving technology. Google and Uber ultimately settled for $245m. The employee in question, Anthony Levandowski, was later charged with trade secrets theft and sentenced to 18 months in federal prison, which he did not serve because he was pardoned by former president Donald Trump.
Kari Paul tested the social network minutes after its launch – did it fail to impress, or should Elon Musk be shuddering?

Meta has launched Threads, a new text-based app to rival Twitter.

The move is a bold attempt to lure users away from its floundering competitor with a near-clone of the platform. The Guardian tested out the new social network on Wednesday, minutes after its widely hyped launch. Would it fail to impress, or does it spell real trouble for Elon Musk?

Getting started
The debut revealed an easy-to-use, intuitive user experience that easily integrates with Instagram.

I started by searching “Threads” in the app store, scrolled through some small apps unfortunately also named Threads (RIP to those, inevitably), and clicked on Threads by Meta. The app asked me to connect my Instagram account to sign up, and I switched over from my personal to my professional page – sorry, readers, I will not be revealing my finsta here. Et voilà, I became a Threads user.

Threads can only be accessed by integrating an existing Instagram username to sign up – meaning if you don’t have an account, you have to get one to enter the new Threads platform. I was left wondering if I should make a separate Threads account based on my personal Instagram page, but that’s a question for another time. For now, you can follow me at @karipaul__.

How it works
Threads offers an eerily Twitter-like microblogging experience.

Threads felt like a fever dream in which Twitter and Instagram had a more usable brain child
Opening the app reveals buttons to like, repost, reply to or quote a “thread”, and counters showing the number of likes and replies that a post has received. Posts are limited to 500 characters, which is more than Twitter’s 280-character threshold, and can include links, photos and videos up to five minutes long.

Using Threads felt like a fever dream in which Twitter and Instagram had a more usable brain child. The feed was slick and easy to read, though for now it was populated largely with accounts I did not yet follow or care about – perhaps an issue that will resolve itself as more people sign up.

Unlike Twitter, Threads does not seem to use hashtags and does not have a feature that allows users to search for specific text or phrases. It also allows users to share up to 10 photos in a single post – the same limit that exists on Instagram – as opposed to Twitter’s limit of four images.

We tested the app from the US, but it’s now live in Apple and Google Android app stores in more than 100 countries including Britain, Australia, Canada and Japan.

Some have raised the question of a potential culture clash between Instagram and a Twitter-like service. How will our curated, photo-based lives clash with the freewheeling, meme-heavy and often unhinged world of Twitter? So far, it’s strange, unfamiliar – and kind of fun.

So, is it better than Twitter?
Meta’s clone of Twitter does feel like, well, using Twitter. The features – likes, retweets, following – are nearly identical to its longstanding microblog predecessor. However, with Twitter getting clunkier and progressively less usable since Musk took it over, opening an app and actually being able to see and engage with content smoothly felt like a breath of fresh air.

That is a user experience Meta is betting on, openly stating that the chaos at Twitter has made space for a new product on the market. In an interview with The Verge, Instagram’s head of product, Adam Mosseri, said the company felt that recent “unpredictability” at Twitter had created a need for a new platform.

“Obviously, Twitter pioneered the space,” Mosseri said. “But just given everything that was going on, we thought there was an opportunity to build something that was open and something that was good for the community that was already using Instagram.”

As a tech writer who has reported extensively on the privacy concerns surrounding Meta, the company’s shameless copying of competitors’ apps, and tech’s growing unchecked power, it pains me to say that I actually enjoyed using Threads. I already use WhatsApp and Instagram daily, and have a nearly dormant yet still existent Facebook account. Do I really want to share more of my data with one of the largest tech companies in the world?

Should we be worried about Meta’s growing power?
Like many Meta-run products, Threads offers the unsettling experience of integrating almost too well into existing products. Making an account gives you the option to follow your existing circle from Instagram. Your followers will likely receive a notification that you’ve made an account and posted, encouraging them to do the same.

And then there are the longstanding privacy issues. Watchdogs have raised a number of concerns about Threads, as the tech giant seeks to pull even more users into its universe. Threads is able to collect a wide range of personal information, including health, financial, contacts, browsing and search history, location data, purchases and “sensitive info”, according to its data privacy disclosure on the App Store.

Because of those issues, Threads is not yet available in the European Union, which has strict data privacy rules. The company is working on rolling the app out to more countries, but cites regulatory uncertainty for its decision to hold off on a European launch.

Meta has emphasized measures on the new app to keep users safe, including enforcing Instagram’s community guidelines and providing tools to control who can mention or reply to users.
Meta founder says rival platform will ‘focus on kindness’ as it claims 30 million users within day of launch

Mark Zuckerberg has taken a swipe at Elon Musk’s Twitter as his competitor to the platform, Threads, reached 30m sign-ups less than 24 hours after launching.

The chief executive and founder of Meta used his new Threads account to say Twitter had not “nailed” its opportunity to become a mega app and implied that it had underachieved because of the amount of hostility on the microblogging platform.

Zuckerberg’s competitive move against Twitter has already resulted in Musk challenging his fellow billionaire to a cage fight, an offer that the Meta boss appears to have accepted. Appropriately, Zuckerberg said in an exchange with a mixed martial arts fighter on Threads that Twitter had not taken its chance to become a leading platform.

Replying on his new Threads account to MMA fighter Mike Davis, who had asked if Threads could become bigger than Twitter, Zuckerberg wrote: “It’ll take some time, but I think there should be a public conversations app with 1bn+ people on it. Twitter has had the opportunity to do this, but hasn’t nailed it. Hopefully we will.”

Zuckerberg indicated in another Threads exchange that Twitter had not reached its potential because it had not been a friendly experience for users.

“The goal is to keep it friendly as it expands. I think it’s possible and will ultimately be the key to its success,” he wrote. “That’s one reason why Twitter never succeeded as much as I think it should have, and we want to do it differently.”

In a further thread, he added: “We are definitely focusing on kindness and making this a friendly place.”

However, Meta’s Facebook and Instagram apps have come in for criticism over the years for their moderation standards, including from whistleblower Frances Haugen, who accused the company in 2021 of putting profit over the public good. Last year an inquest into the death of Molly Russell, 14, found that the British teenager had been able to view harmful content on Instagram before taking her own life in 2017.

Twitter has been criticised since it was bought by Musk last October for reinstating previously banned accounts such as those for Donald Trump and the misogynist influencer Andrew Tate. It has also risked turning off users with a number of changes including a move last weekend to limit the number of tweets that account holders can view, as well as blocking the site to people who are not logged in.

Musk, who has more than 146 million followers on Twitter, did not tweet about Threads directly on Thursday, although he appeared to dismiss the “friendly” approach, tweeting: “It is definitely preferable to be attacked by strangers on Twitter, than indulge in the false happiness of hide-the-pain Instagram”. Threads users need an Instagram account to use the service.

Meta, the owner of Facebook and Instagram, said early adopters of the Twitter rival included Jennifer Lopez, Coldplay and American football star Tom Brady as it revealed initial user numbers. The 30 million figure – after it launched at 7pm EDT in the US on Wednesday and at midnight in the UK – compares with about 13 million for another Twitter competitor, Mastodon, but is far behind Twitter’s user count of more than 250 million.

Threads closely resembles Twitter visually, although some of the wording has been changed, with retweets called “reposts” and tweets called “threads”. Posts on Threads can be 500 characters long, compared with 280 for most Twitter users, and Meta has said it plans to make the app interoperable with other platforms like Mastodon, meaning users could take their accounts and followers to similar apps.

US congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who threatened to quit Twitter in May after Musk promoted a “sick” impersonator account, used her new Threads account to write: “May this platform have good vibes, strong community, excellent humor, and less harassment.”

Threads is freely available in 100 countries including the UK, US and Australia. Instagram has 2 billion users and account holders can transfer their follower list on to their new Threads account.

However, the Zuckerberg lieutenant overseeing the launch, Instagram boss Adam Mosseri, said in an interview that the new app was aiming for cultural relevance over size.

“It would be great if it gets really, really big, but I’m actually more interested in if it becomes culturally relevant than if it gets hundreds of millions of users,” Mosseri told tech news site the Verge.
Mark Zuckerberg’s rival to Elon Musk-owned platform has grown rapidly since launch last Wednesday

Mark Zuckerberg’s “Twitter killer” Threads app has reached 100m sign-ups in less than five days.

The Twitter rival has grown rapidly since its launch last Wednesday, with Zuckerberg seeking to woo users with a promise that the platform would focus on “kindness”.

Twitter’s Elon Musk has responded with a threat to sue Meta, the parent company of Threads, over its launch of a “copycat” app.

Writing on his Threads account, Zuckerberg said the new app had reached 100 million users over the weekend. By contrast Instagram, owned by Zuckerberg’s Meta empire, took a week to reach 100,000 users when it launched as an independent platform in 2010.

“Threads reached 100 million sign-ups over the weekend,” wrote Zuckerberg. “That’s mostly organic demand and we haven’t even turned on many promotions yet. Can’t believe it’s only been five days!”

Threads users need an Instagram account to log into the new app, with the ability to transfer over the accounts they follow on Instagram to the new platform. Despite Zuckerberg’s focus on kindness, the US non-profit group Media Matters said rightwing figures have signed up to Threads including the white nationalist Richard Spencer and Nick Fuentes, a white supremacist and outspoken antisemite. However, Meta has since taken down Spencer’s account.

Twitter has gone through a period of prolonged upheaval since Musk’s $44bn (£38bn) takeover last year, with the billionaire making a series of changes, such as swingeing job cuts and imposing viewing limits.

Mike Proulx, the research director at the analysis firm Forrester, said the Threads launch so far had been a “case study on what to do right”. He added: “The meteoric rise of Threads, in just five days, demonstrates just how many people have longed for an alternative to what Twitter has devolved into.”

However, Proulx said Threads needed to prove that it can manage sustained growth and getting people to use it repeatedly. Meta, which also owns Facebook and WhatsApp, has delayed launching Threads in the EU amid doubts over how the bloc will regulate the app’s use of personal data.

On Sunday the web services firm Cloudflare claimed that website traffic to Twitter, which has more than 250 million daily users, according to Musk, was “tanking”. The Cloudflare managing director, Matthew Prince, posted a graph on Twitter showing a drop in Cloudflare’s domain server ranking for Twitter in mid-2023. The drop in early July appeared to coincide with Musk imposing viewing limits on Twitter and the launch of Threads.

Twitter has, however, retained the support of the senior Taliban leader Anas Haqqani, who endorsed the app over Meta’s Threads, which he said has an “intolerant policy”.

“Twitter has two important advantages over other social media platforms. The first privilege is the freedom of speech. The second privilege is the public nature & credibility of Twitter,” he said on Twitter.

Twitter has been contacted for comment.
