date_published=July 03, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Muskaan Saxena
title=Threads: everything you need to know about Meta's Twitter rival
body=Meta’s Threads app has been building up hype in the last few months, and the Twitter alternative is now available for a lot of people around the world.
Since Elon Musk took over Twitter (and ruined it), we’ve seen a lot of similar apps come and go, with the likes of Bluesky and Mastodon gaining traction. However, we suspect that Threads will likely trump them all and gain a pretty solid user base straight from the get-go.
In fact, Threads has proved so successful, that over five million users signed up for it in the first few hours it was live. If you want to try it out yourself, you can head over to the Threads website, though the best way to use it is via the Android and iOS Thread apps.
If you've been reading a lot about Threads and aren't sure what it actually is, then we have you covered. On this page, we explain everything you need to know to get started on this promising new social media platform.
So, what exactly is Threads?
Meta confirmed earlier in the year that it was “exploring a standalone decentralized social network for sharing text updates," and explained that the team believes "there’s an opportunity for a separate space where creators and public figures can share timely updates about their interests.”
It’s no surprise that the company is basically taking aim at Twitter, and looking to take advantage of the growing number of disgruntled users that want the Twitter experience without being beholden to the increasingly bizarre whims of Elon Musk.
The concept is pretty straightforward, presenting a familiar enough interface that means it should likely be a smooth transition for Twitter refugees and new users alike. You can log in with your Instagram account and go through your existing follower list to choose exactly who you want to follow on Threads, hopefully avoiding an immediate cluttering of your news feed.
date_published=July 03, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Hamish Hector
title=How to use Threads: get to grips with Instagram’s Twitter rival
body=Meta has launched its Twitter competitor Threads, a spin-off of Instagram that prioritizes text over images. Predictably, many of us are already hooked.
The new platform arrives amidst Twitter’s latest controversy; this time it’s about how the social media platform is limiting how many posts its users can read, with paying subscribers able to see 10,000 posts while unpaying ones are limited to just 1,000 per day. Twitter has tried to explain the situation, but this is just the latest in a long line of hated changes that have arrived since Elon Musk took over, and many users have had enough.
Other Twitter alternatives like Mastodon and Bluesky have arisen, but Threads could be the first to truly go mainstream – not least because Meta has a huge social media audience already, with roughly 3.81 billion people using at least one of their platforms monthly in the first quarter of 2023 (via Statista). If even 10% of those people try Threads, the new platform would dwarf Twitter – with Twitter having only around 368 million users (via Statista).
If you’re one of the people looking to make the move over to Meta’s new platform, we’re here with a guide on how to use Threads. Here you’ll find brief guides to many of your queries, as well as links to our more in-depth guides.
Threads doesn’t currently have a proper web version, so to access the platform you’ll need to download the app on your smartphone. Thankfully, it’s ready to go on both Android and iPhone, so whether you’re rocking one of the best Android phones or the best iPhones here's how to download Threads.
To get started on Threads you first need to open up the Play Store on Android, or the App Store on iOS.
Next, you'll need to search for Threads, an Instagram app. You’ll know it’s the correct app if the icon is black with a white @ symbol and if the creator is Instagram.
Tap on Threads to open the app’s page and hit Install to download it.
Once the app is installed you can boot it up and log in with your Instagram details to get started with it. If you don’t have an Instagram account you’ll need to make one before you can join Threads.
Now that you have the app installed and you’re signed in you’ll probably want to make a post to start getting your thoughts and feelings out there. To get started you'll need to boot up the Threads app on your phone.
Open up Threads and on any Threads page, you should see five icons on the bottom of your screen. From left to right they are: a house, a magnifying glass, a square with a line in the corner, a heart, and a person.
Tap on the one in the middle – the square with a line in the corner – and you’ll go to the New Thread page. Here you can type whatever you want, attach an image, and even add replies to create a thread across multiple posts that link together.
Once you’ve typed everything you want to share hit Post in the bottom right corner and your post will go live on Threads.
Before you hit post you can tap ‘Anyone can reply’ in the bottom left corner to change who can respond to your post. The current options are ‘Anyone’, ‘Profiles you follow’, and ‘Mentioned only.’ Tap the one you want to pick and then hit post and only the specified group can respond to it.
date_published=July 03, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Muskaan Saxena
title=Meta teases Twitter alternative and we're ready to pull these Threads
body=Meta’s Twitter alternative has been building up hype since earlier this year, when app researcher Allesandro Paluzzi took to Twitter to share images of Threads (at the time called ‘Barcelona’) and said the app was being pitched as ‘Instagram for your thoughts’.
Now, the upcoming app has been briefly spotted on the Google Play Store and it seems like we could be very close to an actual launch. While the listing was removed almost immediately, it was a full download page that offered some insight into what Threads will look like.
Paluzzi turned up here again, flagging the temporary Play Store appearance and dropping a few screenshots on Twitter that showed off a little bit of the app, like the login screen (featuring a ‘log in with Instagram’ option) and the design of the app’s main timeline feed.
It looks like users will be able to go through their existing follower list on Instagram and choose who they want to follow on Threads, so your new feed won’t get immediately cluttered if you decide to import your Insta account
Unsurprisingly, Threads looks a lot like Twitter. We’ve got the familiar like, comment, retweet (re-thread?), and share buttons at the bottom of each post, and even Instagram's blue checkmarks are still around.
Threads has been in development for a while; the project was initially codenamed ‘P92’ and temporarily used the name ‘Barcelona’. Meta then confirmed in April that it was “exploring a standalone decentralized social network for sharing text updates”, and while that wasn’t a direct dig at Twitter, Meta clearly had a platform in mind when developing the app.
The Play Store leak does give us hope that we’ll be seeing Threads turn up a lot sooner than we think, and following the tweet limitations experienced over the weekend it’s probably about time to jump ship and head to a new platform.
Muskaan is TechRadar’s UK-based Computing writer. She has always been a passionate writer and has had her creative work published in several literary journals and magazines. Her debut into the writing world was a poem published in The Times of Zambia, on the subject of sunflowers and the insignificance of human existence in comparison.
Growing up in Zambia, Muskaan was fascinated with technology, especially computers, and she's joined TechRadar to write about the latest GPUs, laptops and recently anything AI related. If you've got questions, moral concerns or just an interest in anything ChatGPT or general AI, you're in the right place.
Muskaan also somehow managed to install a game on her work MacBook's Touch Bar, without the IT department finding out (yet).
date_published=July 29, 2023 6:00 a.m. PT
published_by=Dan Avery
title=Wish Granted: Threads Just Added a 'Following' Tab to Your Feed 
body=Threads, Instagram's answer to Twitter -- now known as X -- has added a Following tab, allowing you to only see posts from people you follow in chronological order.
A Threads user asked for the feature on Friday and, on Tuesday morning, Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Threads' parent company, Meta, responded, "Ask and you shall receive."
"Threads started rolling out an option for a chronological feed of only people you're following," Zuckerberg posted on his broadcast channel on Instagram.
The Following tab started appearing on both iOS and Android versions of Threads at about the same time, though it's not yet available to all users.
Here's how the Following tab works and what other new features have been added.
For more on Threads, find out why you might not want to sign up for the app and why Elon Musk is reportedly threatening legal action against it.
What is the Following tab on Threads?
When Threads launched on July 5, user feeds were populated with posts from other users and brands, regardless of whether you followed them or not.
Now, members who have the Following option can get a chronological feed featuring only posts from people you've chosen to follow, with no "suggested" posts.
How to access the Following tab on Threads
Threads still defaults to the "For You" feed, so to make the Following feed appear or disappear, you need to tap on the home icon on the bottom left of the app or the Threads logo on top.
It reverts to "For You" mode if you close the app so, for now, you'll have to repeat this every time you open it.
If tapping the icon doesn't change your feed, Following hasn't been added to your version yet.  
What other features has Threads added?
According to Zuckerberg, Threads has also added a translation feature. You can translate a post by tapping a button on the bottom right. 
In an update for Threads for iOS on Monday, Apple teased that, "new features [are] coming."
Instagram head Adam Mosseri has promised several other highly prized features are "on the list" for Threads, according to Forbes, including hashtags, increased search functionality, editable posts, full desktop mode and the ability to limit who can reply to your posts.
How to sign up for Threads
You need an Instagram account to join Threads. If you have one, launch the Threads app and select the Instagram profile you want to make a Threads account for. 
Then add your name, biographical info and any links you want to show on your Threads profile. If you want to just duplicate your Instagram profile, you can also just hit the Import from Instagram button.
Then you'll want to choose the accounts you want to follow. You can select accounts you follow on Instagram one by one or hit Follow all to follow all your Instagram friends.
date_published=July 7, 2023 2:33 p.m. PT
published_by=David Lumb
title=Threads Faces Legal Threat From Twitter, Report Says 
body=Twitter threatened to sue Meta just one day after Facebook's parent company went live with its Twitter-like social media app Threads, according to a report by Semafor.
"Competition is fine, cheating is not," Twitter Executive Chairman Elon Musk tweeted in response to the report Thursday.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg was reportedly sent a letter by Twitter lawyer Alex Spiro, accusing Meta of intentionally stealing "Twitter's trade secrets and other intellectual property." 
Spiro accused Meta of getting Twitter's secrets by hiring dozens of former Twitter employees and claimed the Facebook parent company put them to work making a Twitter copycat, using their insider knowledge to speed up development of the Threads app -- which is "in violation of both state and federal law as well as those employees' ongoing obligations to Twitter," Spiro said in the letter.
Meta communications director Andy Stone rebutted the accusations, saying in a Thread that "no one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee -- that's just not a thing."
Later on Friday, Instagram chief Adam Mosseri said in a Thread that "the goal isn't to replace Twitter" but instead be a "less angry place for conversations." In response to a question about whether journalists and the news media would be supported on Threads, Mosseri acknowledged that while politics and hard news would inevitably show up on Threads, "we're not going to do anything to encourage those verticals."
Threads launched Wednesday, with Meta positioning the new social media app as a Twitter rival. You can sign up for Threads using your Instagram credentials and keep your username, followers and verification status. Here's everything you need to know about Threads, which reached 70 million sign ups as of Friday morning, according to Zuckerberg.
"Way beyond our expectations," Zuckerberg said Friday, though he's noted that "we've got a lot of work ahead to build out the app."
In response to more criticism by both Musk and former Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey Thursday, Mosseri also said that Threads will be getting a chronological feed option at some point.
date_published=July 14, 2023 11:32 a.m. PT
published_by=Kourtnee Jackson ,Nelson Aguilar 
title=Threads Keeps Growing, and New Updates Have Arrived: What You Need to Know 
body=After logging 100 million sign-ups in less than a week, Meta's new app, Threads, has received a software update for users of iOS 17. Meta's Instagram team launched Threads on July 5, and the text-based conversation app, billed as a Twitter rival, quickly caught on.
TechCrunch earlier spotted the news about the update, noting that Instagram's Cameron Roth listed a bug fix for the iOS 17 beta that prevents Threads from crashing. Some iPhone users had experienced problems when attaching photos, leading people to find workarounds like using copy and paste. Other updates include profile tweaks and a feature that lets you double tap to search. The Threads user count continues to climb.
"Threads reached 100 million sign-ups over the weekend," Zuckerberg wrote in a post Monday on Threads. "That's mostly organic demand and we haven't even turned on many promotions yet. Can't believe it's only been 5 days!"
Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, on Monday called the surge of sign-ups on Threads "insane," and promised the team would "make this thing great." 
While the burst of sign-ups doesn't necessarily mean people will use Threads long term, the milestone is notable. For comparison, OpenAI's chatbot ChatGPT, which kicked off an AI rush late last year, surpassed 100 million monthly active users after two months. At the end of 2022, Twitter had 259 million daily active users. Instagram has 1.39 billion daily active users.
Joining Threads is pretty easy: Sign in with your Instagram credentials and keep your username, followers and verification status.
Though the platform has reportedly been in the works since January, the Threads rollout comes on the heels of Twitter owner Elon Musk announcing limits to how many tweets you can read on Twitter per day. The limits were temporary, but the damage done seems to be a bit more permanent.
Amid all the changes at Twitter, social media users have been looking for an alternative, such as Mastodon and Bluesky. Threads provides the option to post text, videos and photos, and the ability to engage in real-time conversations.
Read on to learn more about how to join Threads and what features are available. For more, here's why you might want to wait to join Threads and how Meta is using AI to organize your feeds.

date_published=July 24, 2023 3:51 p.m. PT
published_by=Imad Khan
title=Move Over Threads, TikTok Is Taking Its Spin on Text Posts
body=TikTok has begun allowing creators creators to make posts with just text, adding more non-video features to the short-form video app, the company said in a press release on Monday. 
Much like on Instagram Reels, TikTok creators can upload text with a simple background for people to read as they're swiping through content. With text posts, TikTok says you now have more ways to express yourself beyond video. 
This isn't the first non-video feature introduced to TikTok. Late last year, TikTok brought the ability to share multiple photos in a slideshow in what it called Photo Mode. Here, creators could add captions of up to 2,200 characters. The new text posting feature isn't too dissimilar from Photo Mode, just minus the photos. 
How to create a text post on TikTok
Here's how to use the new text post feature:
Log into the TikTok app.
Go to the Camera page.
There will be three choices: photo, video and text.
Choose Text.
Type out the words you want to post.
On the Post page, you can then customize your text post, like adding sound, tagging a location, enabling comments, allowing Duets, adding stickers, choosing background colors and more.
TikTok is the latest social media company to introduce text-based sharing. Earlier this month, Meta launched Threads, a Twitter competitor that aims to be a bit more lighthearted and jovial. The app saw immediate success, with 100 million signups in the first week, making it the fastest growing app ever. Momentum on Threads has waned significantly, however, as the app still lacks many features found on Twitter. But it shows an appetite for Twitter alternatives as the longstanding text-based social media app has made a sharp pivot after being purchased by Tesla CEO Elon Musk late last year. 
Since Musk's takeover, Twitter has seen elevated extremism and unbanned suspended accounts. It also took away blue verification check marks from journalists, celebrities and publications, unless they ponied up $8 per month for Twitter Blue. The buy-in nature of verification led to much consumer confusion early on, even going so far as to affect the stock market. 
TikTok didn't immediately respond to a request for further comment.
date_published=July 28, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Allisa James
title=Twitter tries to fix its latest mistake as Meta readies its Threads launch
body=Twitter’s most recent guffaws include setting daily rate limits on tweets and forcing users to be logged in if they want to even view tweets at all. But it seems that with the launch of Meta’s supposed Twitter-killer Threads, Twitter is trying to roll back at least one of those changes.
According to TechCrunch, not only are users able to view tweets without an account (or at least being logged into one), tweet preview links are properly unfurling again in other apps like Slack, WhatsApp, and iMessage. According to former Twitter CEO Elon Musk, Twitter enacted these limits to combat “extreme levels of data scraping & system manipulation.” He went on to explain that it was a “temporary emergency measure,” due to “getting data pillaged so much that it was degrading service for normal users!”
Though another reason for the enacted policies may have been due to Google limiting Twitter’s access to its cloud hosting services. It had been reported last month by Insider that the social media platform hadn’t been paying its bills. 
It was also speculated by web developer and Twitter user Sheldon Chang that the site was essentially DDOSing itself. These attacks occur when someone intentionally overwhelms a site by sending too many requests, keeping normal users from accessing it. According to Chang, the company constantly made data requests despite the site not loading properly, which directly resulted from the login requirement.
Threads might be the golden egg
Meanwhile, we have the imminent launch of the Instagram app Threads on July 6, 2023, which is described by Meta as “a stand-alone decentralized social network for sharing text updates." The tech giant believes that "there’s an opportunity for a separate space where creators and public figures can share timely updates about their interests.”
It has all the basic hallmarks of Twitter — like, comment, repost, and share buttons at the bottom of each post — and lets you avoid immediate news feed clutter by letting you transfer your current Instagram follower list. It also lets you reserve your Instagram username if you already have an account. Judging from the recently leaked images, it’s made to resemble Twitter as much as possible.
It seems that Meta is gearing towards competing with Twitter while capturing the growing number of disgruntled users, thanks to Elon Musk’s constant policy changes and questionable decisions. We’ll see soon if Meta is capable of what other Twitter lookalikes haven’t been able to accomplish yet — actually replacing Twitter as a preferred social media platform.
date_published=July 6, 2023 10:59 a.m. PT
published_by=Nelson Aguilar
title=Why You May Not Want to Sign Up for Threads, Meta's New Twitter Competitor 
body=Meta's Twitter rival, Threads, was released Wednesday night, with over 10 million signups in the first seven hours of the service launching on iPhone and Android. Millions more are expected to sign up in the coming days, but if you haven't just yet, one thing might dissuade you from joining Threads: If you change your mind, there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also deleting your Instagram account.
That's right. If you decide you no longer want to use Threads and want to permanently delete your account, you must delete the Instagram account you used to sign up for Threads. In this Instagram help page, you'll see that you do have the option to delete individual posts on Threads -- but there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also getting rid of your Instagram.
You do have another option, however, it's just not as permanent. If you do decide to join Threads, here's how to deactivate your account without deleting your Instagram.
If you want to learn more, check out everything you need to know about Threads and how Meta is using AI to organize your feeds on Instagram and Facebook.
Meta's Twitter rival, Threads, was released Wednesday night, with over 10 million signups in the first seven hours of the service launching on iPhone and Android. Millions more are expected to sign up in the coming days, but if you haven't just yet, one thing might dissuade you from joining Threads: If you change your mind, there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also deleting your Instagram account.
That's right. If you decide you no longer want to use Threads and want to permanently delete your account, you must delete the Instagram account you used to sign up for Threads. In this Instagram help page, you'll see that you do have the option to delete individual posts on Threads -- but there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also getting rid of your Instagram.
You do have another option, however, it's just not as permanent. If you do decide to join Threads, here's how to deactivate your account without deleting your Instagram.
If you want to learn more, check out everything you need to know about Threads and how Meta is using AI to organize your feeds on Instagram and Facebook.
If you don't want to delete your Instagram profile, you can temporarily deactivate your Threads account
When you sign up for Threads, you only have the option to log in with your Instagram account. As you flesh out your profile, you use Instagram to import your profile photo, bio and links, and you can follow the same accounts you follow on Instagram in one fell swoop -- making Instagram and Threads intrinsically linked.
So if you're hesitant about joining Threads, you can still step back and not delete your account. Instead, you do have the option to individually deactivate your Threads profile. Instead of permanently deleting your profile and data, deactivating hides your Threads profile, posts, comments and likes from everyone else, until you decide to return.
To deactivate your Threads account, launch the Threads application, tap the profile icon on the bottom-left and then go to Account > Deactivate profile. You must hit the black Deactivate Threads profile button to confirm. At the bottom of the page, you'll see a notice that says, "This will not affect your Instagram account."
Want to check out more about Instagram? Here's how to fix low-quality videos on your Instagram feed and how to develop a healthier relationship with Instagram.
Wish Granted: Threads Just Added a 'Following' Tab to Your Feed 
Here's how to use the new feature that lets you restrict your Threads feed to only chronological posts from people you follow. 
Threads, Instagram's answer to Twitter -- now known as X -- has added a Following tab, allowing you to only see posts from people you follow in chronological order.
A Threads user asked for the feature on Friday and, on Tuesday morning, Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Threads' parent company, Meta, responded, "Ask and you shall receive."
"Threads started rolling out an option for a chronological feed of only people you're following," Zuckerberg posted on his broadcast channel on Instagram.
The Following tab started appearing on both iOS and Android versions of Threads at about the same time, though it's not yet available to all users.
Here's how the Following tab works and what other new features have been added.
For more on Threads, find out why you might not want to sign up for the app and why Elon Musk is reportedly threatening legal action against it.
What is the Following tab on Threads?
When Threads launched on July 5, user feeds were populated with posts from other users and brands, regardless of whether you followed them or not.
Now, members who have the Following option can get a chronological feed featuring only posts from people you've chosen to follow, with no "suggested" posts.
How to access the Following tab on Threads
Threads still defaults to the "For You" feed, so to make the Following feed appear or disappear, you need to tap on the home icon on the bottom left of the app or the Threads logo on top.
It reverts to "For You" mode if you close the app so, for now, you'll have to repeat this every time you open it.
If tapping the icon doesn't change your feed, Following hasn't been added to your version yet.  
What other features has Threads added?
According to Zuckerberg, Threads has also added a translation feature. You can translate a post by tapping a button on the bottom right. 
In an update for Threads for iOS on Monday, Apple teased that, "new features [are] coming."
Instagram head Adam Mosseri has promised several other highly prized features are "on the list" for Threads, according to Forbes, including hashtags, increased search functionality, editable posts, full desktop mode and the ability to limit who can reply to your posts.
How to sign up for Threads
You need an Instagram account to join Threads. If you have one, launch the Threads app and select the Instagram profile you want to make a Threads account for. 
Then add your name, biographical info and any links you want to show on your Threads profile. If you want to just duplicate your Instagram profile, you can also just hit the Import from Instagram button.
Then you'll want to choose the accounts you want to follow. You can select accounts you follow on Instagram one by one or hit Follow all to follow all your Instagram friends. 

date_published=July 12, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Lance Ulanoff
title=I've been on Threads for a week and I may never go back to Twitter – but Musk could still fend off Zuck
body=In the hours before the Threads launch, I was pretty sure I would never use it. I didn't need another social media platform, especially not one from Meta. In fact, I wondered if I needed social media at all. 
Twitter stressed me out. Instagram only offered low engagement, and my Facebook is limited to birthday and anniversary greetings (and the occasional death notice). Where would Threads fit in? It turns out it fills a social media-sized hole that, up until recently, had been a black pit of despair.
Threads' early arrival and the relatively open launch were unexpected and served to step around my initial misgivings. Instagram literally handed me a virtual ticket and I hopped on board, curious about the Threads ride.
The only real moment of trepidation I've had in this Threads journey was when it asked if I wanted to follow all the people I currently follow on Instagram. Considering how quickly I normally would've said "no" on any other platform, I thought this was a trick question. Still, I had the sense that this might be a core component of the Threads experience, and, ignoring my apprehension, I said yes. I think, by the way, that this was the experience of most early Threads members.
Now, as soon as a current Instagram member I follow joins threads, I automatically follow them. It's an incredibly smart and powerful network effect that is, in part, responsible for Threads' rapid and seemingly organic growth.
Like any new social media platform, much of the discourse on Threads is about Threads. Posts include navel-gazing about missing features, quirks of the system, and the clear differences between it and Twitter.
If I'm being honest, Threads didn't have to work that hard to win my affection. Bluesky, another federated platform, held my adoration for a short while, mostly because it wasn't Twitter. However, Bluesky is developing too slowly and most posts suffer from desperately low engagement. We come to social media, after all, to be seen, don't we?
As my Bluesky experiment faded into the background, I came crawling back to my abusive platform, Twitter, a place where journalists are openly scorned and anger and misinformation are actively promoted (all you need is $8 a month, a Blue Check, and a nightmare).
Threads could have been just another Bluesky, an upstart social media alternative that promised more happiness than pain, to win me over, but Threads immediately felt like something more. Instead of the quaint-but-leaky-house approach of Bluesky, threads felt robust and relatively full-featured.
Meta Threads App
I was startled to see so many celebs and notables on the platform almost from the moment it launched. Credit to Meta and Instagram for an obvious outreach program. In the early days, this meant that you had a semi-decent chance of real engagement with someone who has millions of followers on Instagram but just a few hundred or thousands on Threads. That's obviously changing as millions stream onto Threads and, because they're following the same people they do on Insta, the follower numbers for each notable are rising in tandem.
Nice touches like higher-resolution images that can also appear in portrait mode (vertical), larger (500) character counts, and the ability to drop in almost any video clip or GIF made the platform feel rich and useful. 
Every interaction is designed as a thread from the get-go, which makes following along any conversation easier.
The clean design and total lack of ads is a breath of fresh air coming from Twitter, where Promoted Tweets often have more in common with the garbage-late-night-shopping channel content than contextually relevant offers.
I know this Threads honeymoon can't last
Walking into Threads is like buying a furnished home ... done by someone with very good taste
There are little things missing from Threads, like a GIF gallery, and there are bigger issues, such as the lack of a chronological feed. Threads' light-touch algorithm is like an out-of-touch uncle. It knows your favorite things but sometimes forgets where you live or what you do for a living. Threads can just as easily show me a Thread from a day ago as it can show me one from two seconds ago. 
Because Threads auto-follows everyone I ever followed on Instagram, I rarely choose to follow anyone. That's not normal social media interaction. When I find content I like, I usually click to follow the creator. Walking into Threads is like buying a furnished home, but one that's been done by someone with very good taste. I don't even feel the need to add or remove pieces or even move anything around. But that  makes the platform feel less organic.
There are no ads in Threads but I've seen complaints about all the influencers and brands that appear unbidden in people's feeds. That doesn't bother me much. The great thing about a scrolling platform is how easily you can scroll past things that don't interest you.
I have no idea what's popular on Threads but the lack of a popularity contest is probably a good thing. Yeah, there are already Threads Influencers ("Theadfluencers") but nobody is making brand deals because they have X-number of followers on the platform, at least not yet.
Threads is also hobbled by a lack of desktop access. I started using Threads while on vacation, so I barely noticed this deficit, but now that I'm back at work, I'm also returning more often to – God help me – Twitter because it's open in a Chrome tab while Threads is trapped on my iPhone (it's on Android, too).
Threads will change (and the ads will come)
Threads will add features and change over time. It won't feel as special because instead of 100M people on it, a billion might be using it. At that point, we'll start seeing ads – probably a lot of them. Plus the composition of the Threads userbase will change to better reflect the general population. 
Inevitably, people who aren't as positive, or people who are interested in just recreating Twitter, will join and Meta will have to contend with the same difficult moderation challenges it faced on Instagram and Facebook.
Threads is the social media respite I need. If Twitter and its hoards of sycophantic Musk-serving trolls are darkness, Threads is, for now, the light.
I'm just not sure how long it will shine.
Twitter isn't as popular as it used to be. For real. The microblogging platform has come down to 37th rank in domain ranking according to Domain Name System rankings data from Cloudflare. Besides that, Meta has launched a new microblogging platform, Threads, which competes with Twitter and it has gained 100 million users in just over two days which directly hit Twitter where it hurts most.

So why are people leaving Twitter and joining Threads? Is it because of changes on Twitter? Let’s find out.

Changes in Twitter which divert users to Threads
Elon Musk removed the Legacy Verification from Twitter in April 2023 and switched to paid verifications, which didn’t get much love from users. Those who are worth the blue tick should also pay for it and those who don’t can get their accounts verified very easily now. This has directly attacked the authentication of Twitter.On the other hand, Meta is also offering paid verifications on Instagram but it hasn’t removed the Legacy Verifications yet. Those who got the blue tick because of their content, still have blue tick without paying any dime.Another bad move Elon made on Twitter is that he set a limit for the tweets to unpaid and paid accounts. If you are not paying Twitter for the verification then you can only read 600 tweets in a day. However, if a user is paying Twitter for the verification, then the limit of tweets in a day is 6000.

At this rate, will Twitter's fall in popularity should squarely be blamed on Elon Musk? What do you think? Let us know in the comments below
Meta has been known to have been working on a Twitter alternative for some time now. Even those unaware of the same could guess that Zuckerberg’s company would be cooking up something to take on Twitter. Historically, the company has cloned a lot of its competitors and primarily added the key feature(s) of the rival app to Instagram. This time it is going to release an Instagram app for text-based conversations, according to a leaked marketing slide shared by Lia Haberman.
Meta’s been briefing creators on it’s upcoming text-based app — now looking at a possible late June launch.

Instagram’s Twitter alternative: What we know so far

In her ICYMI newsletter, Ms Haberman says Instagram’s Twitter-like app will be here by the end of June. The company is yet to give it an official name. However internally, it is being called P92 or Barcelona. You will have to sign in to the new app using your Instagram username and password. Your handle, verification, bio, and followers will automatically migrate from Instagram. Even those whom you have blocked on the main app won’t be here to bother you in this app.Meta will apparently incorporate a solid moderation policy “equipping you with settings to control who can reply to you and mention your account”. The UI of the app consists of text posts and threads like Twitter but the heart, comment bubble, and paper plane-shaped share icons are comparable to Instagram. It is said to support up to 500 characters, along with the ability to attach photos, videos, and links.Another highlight of this app is that there will be a decentralized facility to connect with people on other similar platforms like Mastodon. You could be looked up and followed on these other decentralized apps thanks to the underlying ActivityPub architecture. Meta considers this app as a way for creators, public figures, and probably regular users of Instagram to share their interests.

Instagram’s Twitter alternative: Possible strengths and weaknesses+

Strengths
1. Meta is a giant in the social media landscape and it can channel its existing userbase into this new Twitter alternative app.2. Since it’s a new app, Instagram could give it new and unique features and benefits.

Weaknesses
1. Since this is one of the many apps or features the company has to focus on, it might not get the exclusive attention that Twitter gets from its team.2. This could attract regulatory concerns and restrictions as Meta is behind it.3. People might not take the new Meta app in good faith or it would turn out to be a dud like Instagram Notes.Twitter’s problems could be an opportunity for Meta while the growing number of competitors like Mastadon and Bluesky could be a threat to its ambitions.

Should Twitter be worried?

1. For all of the aforementioned strengths and opportunities of Meta, the new Instagram app for text-based conversations is a threat to Twitter. 2. If Meta’s app turns out to be even decent, it could attract Twitter users and many of these users are likely to already have an Instagram account. So the transfer may be seamless.3. Instagram is already a bigger advertising platform and it could take ad dollars from Twitter. Now although only time can tell if all of these things turn out as we predict or assume. But, it will be careless of Twitter to ignore the potential threat it has from this Instagram app.
Instagram Threads is launching on July 6, 2023. It is a text-based micro-blogging website like Twitter. Can it leverage Meta's social media and advertising experience to take on Twitter? Very likely and perhaps enough to leave a dent in Twitter’s business.

Threads: What we know so far
Meta has listed Threads on Apple App Store. The page shows the Threads launch date to be July 6, 2023. You can tap on the Get It button to ensure you are notified when the app finally releases. You can download Threads from Apple App Store (https://apps.apple.com/us/app/threads-an-instagram-app/id6446901002) and Google Play Store (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.instagram.barcelona&gl=it).

In select locations, if you search for Threads on Instagram, you will be presented with a spinning ticket icon. This shows the launch date and time along with the Threads.net website link. This is presumably the web interface of the app.

As per the Threads’ app store listing, we know that:
1. You can use your Instagram account for using Threads. This is just speculation but someday, Meta could bring all of its apps under one umbrella to form a Super app.
2. You can find and follow your Instagram followers within this app. One of the downsides of Twitter alternatives like Blue Sky is that you may not find personal and brand accounts on them. The brands may hesitate to start an account on a new social platform from scratch. That won’t be a problem on Threads because of its association with Instagram.
3. You can follow other creators you like and “discuss everything from the topics you care about today to what’ll be trending tomorrow”.
4. Threads will be collecting a bunch of data linked to you. Jack Dorsey and Elon Musk have already criticised this. However, we suppose as long as Threads manage to offer a better convenient environment, people shouldn’t have a problem.
5. The underlying foundation of Threads is expected to be ActivityPub, which powers Mastadon, Blue Sky and other decentralized Twitter competitors. If it functions in the truest sense, then users will have full control over the content they have posted, and how it circulates (without the interference of ad algorithms. Moreover, Thread users should be able to communicate with other decentralized social media apps/platforms. We are not sure whether Threads be fully decentralized and if it will have these features.Let’s see.
It’s the day after Instagram Threads debuted and the microblogging app has already soared to the top of the app store charts. We have used it and we do see it is inspired by Twitter. However, it has some semblance to Instagram. Also, soon it will get features that put it in comparison to Mastadon and Blue Sky. Here, primarily, we will focus on what’s different between Threads and Twitter. So, let’s get on with it.

1. Since both of these are microblogging websites, the character limit is a key thing to know that impacts your experience. That is how much you can write in a post on these platforms. Threads allow for 500 character count while Twitter lets you write only until you hit 280 characters.

2. Another form of content that you can post is videos. Threads support up to 5-minute long videos while Twitter lets you post only 2-minute 20-second videos.

3. You have to tap enter thrice to start a line of threads on Instagram Threads. Meanwhile, you just have to tap on the Plus icon to start a thread on Twitter.

4. I realized Threads doesn’t support hashtags only when I cross-posted a tweet from Twitter. You can’t search for content based on hashtags and that’s a major feature that’s available in most other social media platforms.  

5. Threads doesn’t feature the option to search for posts/content on the platform. So, a major cutback on discoverability. We hope this would make its way to Threads soon, especially because Instagram and Facebook have it.

6. Threads doesn’t have an option yet to save a draft of the post to attend to it later. Whereas on Twitter, when you hit the cancel button, you get an option to save the draft.

7. The privacy and notification settings are different on Twitter and Threads. The latter seems to have imported these settings from Instagram.
To address extreme levels of data scraping & system manipulation, we’ve applied the following temporary limits:

- Verified accounts are limited to reading 6000 posts/day
- Unverified accounts to 600 posts/day
- New unverified accounts to 300/day

8. There are no ads on Threads for now. Mark Zuckerberg has said Threads will get ads only when it hits a 1 billion user base. Twitter, on the other hand, has an ad machinery in the works. But, since Meta is much better at this game, it won’t be long before you see ads on Threads too.

9. Threads will soon work with Fediverse and employ the ActivityPub protocol. It will then be a decentralized social networking platform like Mastodon (also AcitivtyPub-based) and Blue Sky. Twitter is part of the OG social media club that’s centralized.

10. There are no trending topics page, no user-generated alt texts, and other elements of Twitter. What it has however is a massive community from the get-go as users sign up with their Instagram account and can also quickly bring Instagram followers with a single click. Not just that, if you are an Instagram subscriber, you get paid verification on Threads.

So, it's been only a day and a half at this point and the platform still doesn't look or feel fully baked. Folks coming from other platforms may find many things missing. They may even struggle to carry over their follower base from say, Twitter. And since it's a Meta app, one may be concerned about data privacy too. However, it's too early to tell. We may see many changes in the app going forward which may change our opinion. So, let's see. 
Meta’s new microblogging platform, Threads has been a big hit all over the globe, having 100 million users in over two days. After the launch of Threads, Twitter saw a downfall in the users as the Meta’s new microblogging platform attracted Twitter’s users. One of many reasons why people joined Threads is that, when Elon Musk took the charge on Twitter, he made some changes like removing Legacy verification which directly attacked the genuineness of Twitter. Threads also offers paid verification but it still has the Legacy Verification. 

But just like that variation, Twitter has some features that Threads doesn’t have which can be an annoying thing for a user. Here are five of them:No web versionTwitter can be used both on web and on app but Threads needs to be downloaded from the app store. You cannot use it on the web which could be a problem for people who don't have enough storage in their smartphones.

No DM option
In Threads, if you want to talk to someone you have to do it openly because there is no DM option. So either you talk in comments or through threads. 
No embedded threads links
If you liked something and want to embed a thread in your article or blog. Unfortunately, you cannot do that because Threads doesn’t give you an option to embed threads links. 
No Spaces
Threads does not have this cool feature called Spaces in Twitter. Spaces is basically a live podcast on Twitter where you can join the group and talk vocally. 
No Communities
Threads also doesn’t have groups like Twitter's Community. Communities basically refers to groups of users just like any other social media i.e. Instagram, Whatsapp and much more.

Given the lack of these convenience and content-related features, it is no surprise that Threads is already seeing a downfall in the number of active users. However, given Twitter’s uncertain future, it won’t be surprising to see some of the above-mentioned features making their way to the new Meta platform in the future.
Finally, a competitor that could make a real dent in Twitter's waning domination of social media. Here’s how to get going with Threads from Meta's Instagram.

Instagram Threads, the new Twitter-like social network from Meta, has a major advantage over its rivals thanks to a built-in audience of more than 2 billion Instagram users. As of Thursday afternoon, 30 million people had already signed up, according to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg.

As chaos consumed Twitter following Elon Musk's takeover, I tried using Mastodon after a long break, and once again found it unusable because of its limited audience, clunky implementation, and user interface. Unusable is probably too strong, but it’s certainly not smooth and pleasant to navigate. In any case, Threads already has more users than Mastodon in just one day of its existence. As for Bluesky, I'm still waiting on the waitlist.

Perhaps sheer momentum and incumbency will preserve Twitter’s status as the de facto public forum no matter how much its owner messes it up. But MySpace was once the leading social network and Napster was the top online music service, so things can change even when it seems in the moment that they will live on forever.

How to Get Instagram Threads
The first thing that struck me is that Threads isn’t available on the web, like Twitter. That's a big minus for me, since I like to not be hunched over a phone and squinting at my feeds. Currently, you can only view a Thread in a web browser from a link (like this from Instagram head Adam Mosseri(Opens in a new window)), though it seems that web access is in the works, The Verge reports(Opens in a new window), likely at Threads.net(Opens in a new window).

For now, you can download Threads from the Google Play Store(Opens in a new window) and the iOS App Store(Opens in a new window). Or, open the Instagram app, tap the avatar icon on the bottom right, select the hamburger menu on the top right and tap Threads, which will redirect you to your phone's app store.

Tapping the Threads entry launches a rotating image with an @ sign on one side and date, timestamp, username, and QR code on the other. None of that matters, though. It’s just eye candy. The only thing that matters is the Get Threads button at the bottom. Tap it and you’re taken to the app store to download Threads.

Tap Install/Get just as you normally would, launch the app, and log in with your Instagram account. (You can switch accounts if you have multiple accounts.)

After a brief Get ready for Threads delay, it’s time to set up your new Profile page. You can fill in a new profile picture, Bio, and add a link, or simply import all this from your Instagram account.

As with Twitter and Instagram, you can make your account public or private. I have never understood why anyone would join a public forum but not share their thoughts with the public, unless they wanted to simply observe what other public accounts are sharing. Maybe they want a private network among just their friends and family? I set mine to public.

To change it later, tap the chathead on the bottom right, select the two-line settings menu, tap Privacy and toggle Private profile to your preferred setting.

How Do You Follow People on Threads?
The next step is to choose people to follow. You can select any of the accounts you follow on Instagram, or follow them all at once. I’ve blurred the usernames in the screenshot below, even though most would be happy for more followers. I chose to follow all.

Next, you're presented with some facts about the service:

The most interesting bit here is that Threads will work with the fediverse. That means it's compatible with Mastodon and a bunch of other Twitter-like social networks. Aside from that, we already know that Threads is part of Instagram and Meta and that it makes its living with targeted advertising.

If that hasn’t given you second thoughts, you have one last chance to back out. For now, you can't delete a Threads account without losing your Instagram account; you can only deactivate. Otherwise, tap Join Threads, as I did.

The final option is whether to allow the app to send notifications to your phone. I usually turn this off for social media apps, but tried enabling it to see just how annoying it would become.

First Look at the Threads Interface
Threads' interface did not impress me at first glance. It was a blank white page. I guessed no one in my Instagram contacts had posted anything in the new social media app.

This struck me as funny, since I’d been hearing from people that you can’t see a feed of just those you follow. A fellow PCMagger did not follow her Instagram follows on Threads and her Threads feed populated with posts from random celebs and other accounts she didn't follow on Instagram.

The red dot below the heart icon gave me hope for some kind of content, though. Indeed, it led to a page (shown below) where I could confirm following all my followers and follow requesters. So, it seemed that when I chose to follow all the same accounts I follow on Instagram, it was actually just requesting to follow them. I wish I could confirm all in one step here as well. I then realized that I immediately had over 30 followers, whereas after a year of using Mastodon I still have only 44. Even after confirming everyone, though, I still had a blank white feed page. What gives?

I decided to do a post, which the app calls a Thread. It seems to emphasize that you’re starting a conversation rather than proclaiming something. After posting my first Thread, my feed quickly populated with Threads from those I’d confirmed and others I follow on Instagram. It seems that you need to start one Thread before you can see your feed; at least that was my experience. Here’s the page where you start a new Thread: 

It’s a clean and clear interface design. Posts can be up to 500 characters long and include links, photos, and videos up to 5 minutes in length. You attach an image or video by tapping the standard paperclip icon. The app supports high-res 4K content, as Marques Brownlee points out(Opens in a new window).

How to Read Your Threads Feed
As you can see from the screenshot above, you can heart, reply, reshare, and send a Thread. You can also @ another user in a Thread. The Send button offers the choice of adding a Thread to your Instagram story or feed, to copy a link to the Thread, or share via your phone’s share sheet.

Much has been made of the “algorithm” Instagram uses to determine the order in which it shows content. It will take time to see how this works out, but I was pleased with the Threads in my feed, all of which were from Instagram accounts I follow.

A couple of important Twitter features are as yet missing from Threads. For one, there’s no use of hashtags to set a topic (or search for one for that matter) for your post. Similarly, there is no Trends list. If you go to the Search page, it’s just for finding user accounts. These are features that I feel Meta will add to the service at some point. You should be able to search for posts on a topic, not just for accounts. I expect the company knows this; Mark Zuckerberg posted a Thread(Opens in a new window) saying, “We’ve got a lot of work ahead to build out the app.”

Does Threads Support Links?
One of the biggest beefs I have about Instagram is that it doesn’t allow links in posts. One gets tired of seeing “Click on the link in profile page.” Though in some ways this makes Instagram less of a marketing tool (though let’s be honest, a great deal of Instagram is marketing and promotion), it’s still an irksome limitation. On Threads, you can post a web link as a Thread and it expands to show the top image, as you can with Twitter.

Should You Join Threads?
If you’re dissatisfied with the limitations of Instagram, turned off by the unsavory path Twitter has taken, unimpressed by Mastodon’s lack of usability, and uninvited to Bluesky, then Threads may be just the ticket for you. Of course, you’ll need an Instagram account to get started, but that doesn’t mean you have to use Instagram’s app. If you’re a security-and-privacy head, you’ll probably want to stay clear of Threads. Though in that case you should stay clear of Twitter as well; Mastodon is your jam. But the broader user base as well as the much slicker, smoother app design of Threads will appeal to many, present company included. I was impressed with how much engaging activity and content was already on the service on day one.
The spam-fighting tactic, which limits how much active users can use the platform, results in at least a few users being booted from the app. Naturally, Elon Musk had something to say about it.

If you’re having trouble accessing Twitter rival Threads, you may have accidentally been caught up in the app’s efforts to fight spam. 

The new social media app is cracking down on spammers and bots as users have reported a surge of junk posts hitting the platform less than two weeks after it launched.

"Spam attacks have picked up so we're going to have to get tighter on things like rate limits, which is going to mean more unintentionally limiting active people (false positives)," Instagram Head Adam Mosseri wrote(Opens in a new window) today. "If you get caught up those protections let us know.”

The rate limiting means Threads is restricting traffic from user accounts it suspects are controlled by spammers. These accounts tend to generate a large amount of traffic, so if you’ve become a heavy user of Threads, you may have accidentally been targeted. 

“Unfortunately, I was one of the false positives and had to re-verify my account,” one user wrote(Opens in a new window). “Was locked out of Threads and Instagram for a few days while they did the verification.” 

Mosseri announced the news as Threads users have reported a flood of spammers in their replies. “Got to a point at the w/e where half my posts got a bot response. Either gambling related or obvious ‘bait’ messages,” another user wrote(Opens in a new window). 

The crackdown comes several weeks after Twitter began rate limiting to stop spammers and bots, including groups that were scraping tweets to train AI chatbots. When the company initially announced the policy, unverified Twitter users were limited to viewing only 600 tweets per day.

Twitter has since loosened(Opens in a new window) the policy for both unverified and verified users. Nevertheless, the rate limiting initially caused many to wonder if traffic to the bird site would plummet right as Threads began to emerge as possible Twitter killer. Now, in a bit of irony, Mark Zuckerberg's app has been forced to take the same action.

In response to Threads' rate limiting, Twitter owner Elon Musk called(Opens in a new window) out his competition as once again copying Twitter. Earlier this month, a lawyer for Musk also threatened to sue Threads’ parent company Meta for allegedly stealing Twitter's trade secrets to build the app.
One caveat here is that SimilarWeb says it only has reliable numbers for Android users, not iOS.

If you’ve already lost interest in Meta’s Twitter rival, Threads, you're not alone. The social media app may have lost about half of its traffic.

That latest data from web-traffic tracker SimilarWeb shows(Opens in a new window) that daily active users for Threads dropped to 23.6 million on Friday, down from the 49 million active users the app saw on July 7, a day after it first launched. 

The 23.6 million number also indicates Threads only had about 22% of Twitter’s audience. “Usage in the US, which saw the most activity, peaked at about 21 minutes of engagement with the app on July 7. By July 14, that was down to a little over 6 minutes,” the report adds. 

One caveat here is that SimilarWeb says it only has reliable numbers for Android users, not iOS. It plans on sharing metrics for iPhone users in the coming weeks. Still, the sharp decrease shows that while Threads was able to easily attract a flood of sign-ups—over 100 million—because it hooked into Instagram, the real challenge will be driving user engagement. 

“Threads is missing many basic features and still needs to offer a compelling reason to switch from Twitter or start a new social media habit with Threads,” SimilarWeb adds.

Nevertheless, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg says his new app is still drawing a large user base. “Early growth was off the charts, but more importantly 10s of millions of people now come back daily,” he wrote(Opens in a new window) in a Threads post on Monday. 

“That's way ahead of what we expected,” he adds. “The focus for the rest of the year is improving the basics and retention. It'll take time to stabilize, but once we nail that then we'll focus on growing the community.” 

On Tuesday, Meta also released(Opens in a new window) a new version of Threads app, which includes language translation and a follows tab, which will supposedly make it easier to see who’s following your account. The company is also planning to add an edit button and offer a desktop mode.
Elon Musk's lawyer is accusing Meta of stealing trade secrets from Twitter to build Threads by hiring dozens of former Twitter employees.

It’s no secret that Meta is launching Threads to compete against Twitter. But now Elon Musk is threatening to hit back with a lawsuit to stop the app. 

On Wednesday, a lawyer for Musk sent a letter to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, accusing his company of systematically stealing Twitter’s trade secret to build Threads, Semafor reports(Opens in a new window).

The letter(Opens in a new window) claims Meta hired “dozens of former Twitter employees” who had access to the company’s trade secrets and other confidential information. “With that knowledge, Meta deliberately assigned these employees to develop, in a matter of months, Meta’s copycat ‘Threads’ app,” the letter says.

No employees were named, but the letter alleges that many of them “improperly retained Twitter documents and electronics devices.” In addition, the letter implies the same employees violated their non-disclosure agreements with Twitter after joining Meta. 

The lawyer then warns that a lawsuit is likely coming Zuckerberg’s way to stop the trade secret violations and force Meta to pay civil damages. “Twitter intends to strictly enforce its intellectual property rights, and demands that Meta take immediate steps to stop using any Twitter trade secrets or other highly confidential information,” the letter adds. “Further, Meta is expressly prohibited from engaging in any crawling or scraping of Twitter’s followers or following data.”

Musk, who has laid off most of Twitter's staff, tweeted(Opens in a new window): "Competition is fine, cheating is not."

However, Meta is denying the allegations. “No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee —that’s just not a thing," posted(Opens in a new window) company spokesperson Andy Stone.

Still, Zuckerberg has been trolling Musk in a curious way. On Wednesday, he posted a rare tweet(Opens in a new window) involving the Spider-Man pointing at Spider-Man meme, suggesting he’s already well aware Threads is seen as a clone of Twitter. 

That said, Zuckerberg is hoping Threads will eventually surpass Twitter in both its appeal and user base. On Thursday, Meta’s CEO posted(Opens in a new window) that he’s aiming for Threads to eventually reach over 1 billion users.

“The goal is to keep it friendly as it expands. I think it's possible and will ultimately be the key to its success. That's one reason why Twitter never succeeded as much as I think it should have, and we want to do it differently,” Zuckerberg added(Opens in a new window), in another subtle shot at Musk. (Both tech CEOs may have the chance to fight this battle in an actual ring sometime soon.)

In the meantime, Twitter’s new CEO, Linda Yaccarino, posted her own tweet, dismissing Threads as a real rival. “We're often imitated —but the Twitter community can never be duplicated,” she wrote(Opens in a new window).
At the end of last week, Threads had 12.6 million daily active users on Android, or about 12% of Twitter’s audience, according to SimilarWeb.

After a launch that saw a surge in sign-ups, interest in Meta’s Twitter competitor, Threads, continues to drop off.

Threads’ daily active users for the Android app fell to 12.6 million on Sunday, according(Opens in a new window) to SimilarWeb, an internet traffic tracker. That's a 74% drop from the 49 million users Threads saw on July 7, a day after the social media platform launched. 

Those 12.6 million users also represent around 12% of Twitter’s audience on Android. In addition, the average amount of time Threads users spend on the app continues to plummet. 

“US Android users spent nearly 21 minutes per day on the app immediately after launch, but over the past week they’ve spent less than 5 minutes per day with it. In contrast, Twitter users consistently engaged with the app for about 25 minutes per day,” SimilarWeb said in the report.  

Last week, app-tracking firm SensorTower reported(Opens in a new window) a similar downward trend for Threads.

SimilarWeb added: “We don’t yet have daily numbers for iOS, but we suspect the boom-and-bust pattern is similar. Threads took off like a rocket, with its close linkage to Instagram as the booster. However, the developers of Threads will need to fill in missing features and add some new and unique ones if they want to make checking the app a daily habit for users.”

Indeed, Threads has yet to introduce an official desktop version of the site. And just yesterday, Meta finally began adding a “Following” feed to the app, which will only show posts from accounts you follow in chronological order.

However, the drop in traffic at Threads isn’t necessarily converting to more activity on Twitter, which is undergoing its own controversial changes. Although time spent on the site remains the same, SimilarWeb says user traffic to Twitter is down about 8% to 10% year over year. 
Meta’s Twitter competitor Threads has been off to a great start — it gained 100 million sign-ups within five days of the launch. But with its absence in the EU, some AI-powered content generator apps are trying to gain the advantage of the situation.

Today, Apple removed one of the biggest gainers — an app called Threads for Insta developed by SocialKit LTD. It was a content generator, which lets you make posts through AI-powered models. The app was in the top charts in the social media category in countries like Germany, France, Spain, Sweden and the Netherlands before Apple removed it from the App Store. Germany-based developer duo Mysk first pointed out that this app is climbing charts in many countries. Mysk noted that Apple also suspended the developer account of SocialKit LTD and all the apps made by them.
According to analytics firm Sensor Tower, the app has managed to get 300,000 downloads in a short time — mostly from EU-based users. The firm’s senior analyst Abe Yousef said that the app has been in the overall top 20 charts of the iOS app store in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain and Italy.

The app seemingly appeared just after Meta launched Threads. There are a few other apps with similar names and functionality floating around on the App Store, but they haven’t appeared in any top charts yet.

We reached out to Apple and Meta for a comment, and we’ll update the story if we hear back.

The problem of Threads copycats isn’t limited to the App Store. Before Instagram launched Threads on July 6, a few impersonating apps were already doing rounds on the Play Store before Google eventually removed those.
Impersonating popular apps is not a new trend in the App Store. Earlier this year, several apps with “ChatGPT” in their name took advantage of OpenAI not having an official ChatGPT app. At that time, the AI company didn’t even have an official ChatGPT API.

Last week, Twitter threatened to sue Meta for allegedly poaching people from the Elon Musk–owned company. In response, Meta spokesperson Andy Stone said, “No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee — that’s just not a thing.”
House Judiciary chair Jim Jordan (R-OH) has expanded his wide-ranging investigation of Big Tech and social media companies to include Threads, Meta’s new Twitter competitor.

Representative Jordan subpoenaed Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Meta and Microsoft in February to learn about “how and to what extent the Executive Branch coerced and colluded with companies and other intermediaries to censor speech.”

Though it’s just weeks old, Jordan is already interested in Threads. He wrote a letter to Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg requesting additional information about its new Instagram spinout, asking him to share any information about content moderation. The notice also instructs Zuckerberg to not delete or alter any electronic communications related to the product. Meta’s deadline to comply with the order is July 31.
“Threads raises serious, specific concerns because it has been marketed as rival of Elon Musk’s Twitter, which has faced political persecution from the Biden Administration following Musk’s commitment to free speech,” Jordan wrote.

In the past, Jordan has applauded Musk’s “Twitter Files,” a series of deep dives into Twitter’s past content moderation practices, which turned out to be relatively banal. But while Musk’s Twitter advertises its commitment to free speech, its newer policies have often been incongruous with this goal. Twitter has been known to censor links to other competing social platforms, ban journalists arbitrarily and promote the tweets of users who pay for Twitter Blue.
In another recent lawsuit, a Louisiana judge issued an injunction that limits the communication between the White House and social media companies. The lawsuit regurgitated recurring conservative talking points about Hunter Biden’s laptop, the removal of anti-vaccine content and the Wuhan lab origin theory of COVID-19. Jordan draws from this complaint in his new subpoena to Meta, but the injunction was stayed by the appeals court.

Threads exploded onto the social media scene, getting over 100 million users in just days. However, now that the initial craze seems to have passed, daily user numbers are decreasing.

Instagram Threads’ launch has been an overnight success, topping 100 million users within days of its arrival. Now, new data indicates the app has already achieved one-fifth of the weekly active user base of Twitter worldwide and 86 times the weekly active user base of the largest Twitter rival in the U.S., Truth Social, which had a weekly active user base of 1 million as of last week.

The new insights, provided by app intelligence firm data.ai, follow another analysis of Threads’ early traction, which had demonstrated a slight dip in early usage. According to the app intelligence firm Sensor Tower late last week, Threads’ daily active users declined on Tuesday and Wednesday — down around 20% from Saturday. Time spent was also down by 50%, from 20 minutes to 10 minutes, the firm said, as reported by CNBC.

But momentum for Threads is far from over, data.ai points out. The app has now achieved over 150 million downloads, by its current estimates — which is 5.5 times faster than Niantic’s Pokémon GO, which had held the record for largest app launch title since its July 2016 debut.
Data.ai also shared other new insights about the nature of Threads’ audience, finding that the Twitter rival had attracted an audience of around 93 million active users globally during its first partial week of availability, ahead of the official announcement of its 100 million signups milestone on July 10.

The firm also found that India, not the U.S., is leading in terms of downloads of the new app, accounting for 33% of global downloads. It’s followed by Brazil (22%), then the U.S. (16%), and finally Mexico and Japan, at 8% and 5%, respectively. Threads, however, is not available in the EU at this time due to regulatory hurdles related to privacy concerns and data collection practices. Meta even recently began preventing EU users from working around the block on Threads by way of VPNs.
A few days ago, Threads released its first major update since its launch, bringing support for iOS 17, now available as a public beta, among other smaller changes. Still ahead for the app are larger improvements like a following feed, an edit button, multi-account support and integration with ActivityPub, the protocol powering the popular, decentralized Twitter alternative Mastodon.


Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg is putting to rest reports that Instagram’s Twitter rival, Threads, is already seeing usage declines, noting in a new post on Monday that “10s of millions of people come back daily.” The app has been off to a remarkably strong start topping 100 million users in a matter of days following its debut and recently reaching one-fifth of the weekly active user base of Twitter. However, a report by analytics firm Similarweb indicated Threads usage had already dropped by half from its initial surge, claiming that daily active users on the Twitter competitor had dropped from 49 million to 23.6 million in just a week’s time.

Of course, a slight downturn in usage is common after the initial interest in a new social app wears off. There’s a rush of early engagement as users set up their accounts, follow friends and make their first posts. But soon after, people have to figure out how the app fits into their everyday lives among all the other social apps they use to network and connect with others. So it’s not surprising to see a dip in Threads engagement now that the newness has worn off.

But Zuckerberg is positioning the app’s engagement numbers as a win, not a loss.

“I’m very optimistic about how the Threads community is coming together,” the CEO wrote on Threads on Monday. “Early growth was off the charts, but more importantly 10s of millions of people now come back daily. That’s way ahead of what we expected,” he continued. “The focus for the rest of the year is improving the basics and retention. It’ll take time to stabilize, but once we nail that then we’ll focus on growing the community. We’ve run this playbook many times (FB, IG, Stories, Reels, etc) and I’m confident Threads is on a good path too,” Zuckerberg added.

His remarks follow earlier statements by Instagram head Adam Mosseri who said a few days ago that the focus right now was “not engagement” but “getting past the initial peak and trough we see with every new product, and building new features, dialing in performance, and improving ranking.” He also confirmed that Threads’ growth, retention and engagement were well ahead of company projections. In other words, Meta is not worried about any slight dips for the time being.

Threads’ early success stirred up the rivalry between Zuckerberg and Twitter owner Elon Musk. Last week, for example, users noticed Twitter had begun blocking links to Threads in Twitter searches. Meanwhile, Musk resorted to name-calling, tweeting “Zuck is a cuck,” and crudely proposing a “literal dick measuring contest.”

Still, it’s clear Threads has Twitter worried. In an effort to help retain high-profile Twitter users from abandoning the platform, the company last week started a new creator monetization program that would pay Verified creators a portion of the revenue earned from ads served in the replies to their posts. Creators reported receiving four to five-figure earnings. Over the weekend, Twitter tweaked the policy to increase the rate limits for Verified users by 50%, so they could scroll and read more tweets before being cut off. (Rate limits had been enacted as a means of cutting down on spam and bot activity on the platform.)
In addition, Musk announced Twitter would begin to share ad revenue from profile page views as well, which should “roughly double payouts,” adding that only views from Verified users would count.

Twitter is still ahead of Threads in terms of user base, but it’s still early days for the new Instagram app.

Meta is promising a range of features are still to come to Threads, including things like multi-account support, an edit button, the ability to search posts not just profiles, translation, the ability to revisit liked posts, a chronological feed (aka following feed) and, of course, integration with the “fediverse” — or the decentralized social network that includes Mastodon and other apps.

With these additions, Threads’ usage and retention could grow again as the app achieves feature parity with Twitter.
After multiple EU-based users complained about not being able to access Instagram’s Threads app through VPN, Meta confirmed that it is blocking such efforts.

The company launched Threads last week, but given privacy concerns around the app, it is not available in the EU. The company said in a statement that it has applied further measures to stop users from accessing the new social app.

“Threads is not currently available in most countries in Europe and we’ve taken additional steps to prevent people based there from accessing it at this time. Europe continues to be an incredibly important market for Meta and we hope to make Threads available here in the future,” it said in a statement provided to TechCrunch.

Earlier today, several EU-based users started posting screenshots on Twitter indicating that they were not able to access the Threads app even after using VPN.
The Threads app extensively tracks users, per Meta’s privacy policy and the app’s iOS listing — which discloses the app may collect a range of personal data, including highly sensitive information such as health and financial data, precise location, browsing history, contacts and search history.

This approach creates legal and regulatory challenges for Meta in the EU.

Under EU data protection law, Meta requires a valid legal basis to process such personal data legally for ad targeting — an area where the company is facing increasing uncertainty following a recent Court of Justice ruling.

That’s not all either: The bloc’s shiny new ex-ante antitrust regime, the Digital Markets Act, also places limits on how applicable gatekeeping giants can combine data for ads. And Meta has reportedly cited uncertainty over how the DMA will apply to its business’ use of data as being behind the delay to Threads launching in the EU.

Despite not being officially rolled out in most of Europe, Meta’s Twitter rival has been off to a good start as the app crossed 100 million signups in just a few days.

However, according to analytics monitoring firm Sensor Tower, daily active users were down 20% this week as compared to Saturday, and time spent on the app had also reduced. So it remains to be seen whether the Threads buzz will fade to more of a background hum as the novelty of a Meta version of Twitter wears off.

Earlier this week, Meta updated the Thread iOS app with support for iOS 17 and reduced binary size along with other small improvements.

Responding to a post about the lack of web or desktop support, engineer Cameron Roth said it’s not as simple as “turning it on.”
Meta’s Threads has become a household name shortly after its debut earlier this month. Within a week of its launch, it attracted over 100 million users worldwide. The platform also recently achieved one-fifth of Twitter’s weekly active user base globally. Now a startup named Artie is exploring new possibilities for the Twitter alternative by bringing gaming to the platform.

The Los Angeles–based startup, which counts Zynga founder Mark Pincus, former TikTok CEO Kevin Mayer and Winklevoss twins (Cameron Winklevoss and Tyler Winklevoss) among its investors, is looking to bring “app-quality” games to Threads and other modern social media platforms. Initially, the startup planned to offer game titles across social channels through the web browser, but that plan has evolved to explore how it can make games more socially native — with Threads becoming the primary focus.

Artie’s approach is similar to how Facebook users previously got Zynga’s FarmVille and Words With Friends. Nonetheless, the startup wants to make it specific for mobile users and leverage advancements such as 5G networks, faster GPUs and cloud technologies to deliver a fresh gaming experience to a young audience.

“What makes Threads really special for us is we can get back to the idea of playing games with friends in 2023,” said Artie CEO Ryan Horrigan in an interview, adding that the Meta-owned platform allows users to have all the friends they have accumulated on Instagram over the years — alongside celebrities and other users.

“That’s very different from Twitter. For most people on Twitter, it’s more business, politics, news or sports-oriented, and you are following people on Twitter who you don’t know,” he said.

Users can play Artie’s games by accessing their links in a Threads user’s bio or post. This link will take them directly to the game via the embedded browser on the social media platform. The game will also include options to let gamers log in using their social handle, email address or phone number and play together with their friends and family.

“We think there is a middle ground and a hybrid approach where you can actually stream the game down to your phone and render it in real-time in the browser of social apps,” Horrigan told TechCrunch.
Artie found out that people between the ages of 18 and 35, who are its target audience, usually do not download any apps in a month. As a solution, the startup has decided to implement a download-free method.

This way, Artie has cleverly avoided paying app store commissions to Apple and Google. Similarly, its games are not required to comply with any platform-specific guidelines or framework such as Apple’s App Tracking Transparency. However, Horrigan said the startup does care about privacy and follows the U.S.’s California Consumer Privacy Act and Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation laws, among other state-led policies around the world.

“We are more like an e-commerce business on that front as we sit above the fray and on the web, which is to our advantage compared to other game companies,” he said.

Nevertheless, users can save Artie’s games on their home screen as a progressive web app if they prefer not to access the game through their social media account every time they want to play. Users can also save their game progress via cookies or by logging in to their social media account. Furthermore, since the games work on the browser, users get a cross-platform multiplayer experience, which works across both Android and iOS devices.

New experience already has 150,000 hooked
Artie has begun testing its experience with the clash-style game Pong Legends in the U.S., Brazil, India and Southeast Asia. The game is being promoted on TikTok, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube. Horrigan said the experience attracted over 150,000 players in the last few months. He added that users typically spend an average of 30 seconds per video on apps like TikTok, but they dedicate seven to 10 minutes per session when playing the clash game. The startup also observed that approximately 15% of players engage with its game more than four times daily.

“We are also seeing virality or K-factor two to three times greater than an average mobile game,” he said. “Most mobile games have a K factor south of one, so they’re not acquiring a whole new player for every paid player. We’re already acquiring one to one and a half players for every paid player we acquire.”

Pong Legends will be available to users in public beta this fall. It will offer tournaments for multiple users to play together and a dedicated private gameplay mode to let users play only with their friends. The startup also plans to release two additional games next year, with one centered around sports and launching in the first half of the year.

Even though Artie wants to make its games available for all modern social media platforms where the testing is ongoing, it will emphasize Threads and TikTok as the two primary-focused platforms.

“So far, TikTok has stood out amongst the platforms we are testing on, but Threads seems to be a unique offering that none of the others have in terms of reaching friend groups,” Horrigan noted.

Unlike the newcomers who seem keen to start from scratch, Artie doesn’t have plans to introduce a new genre, as Horrigan notes it’s difficult to develop new genres. However, the startup intends to search for fresh ideas to revitalize some existing genres that have already been tested and proven. It also looks for partnerships and IPs that are socially relevant on apps, including Threads. Moreover, the startup plans to generate revenue through in-game purchases — in the form of virtual goods and vanity items or to let players speed up their progress.

Lessons from existing industry moves
Artie is not alone in utilizing the growing presence of social media with its games. In fact, social media giants, including Snap and Meta, did try to take the gaming route. The former completely discontinued the feature recently, just a couple of years after its launch.

Upon close examination of the existing developments, Horrigan noted that one reason games on social media have yet to achieve substantial success is their predominantly hypercasual nature, with instant games based on HTML or JavaScript.

“Those games are not very deep that people play for a number of weeks or a couple of months and typically churn out, and they have predominantly ad-based monetization,” he said. “We can cross the chasm into these casual and mid-core games and deliver them over the top in a way that instant games have not been able to do because they’re technologically constrained.”

The executive also noted that the moves by Meta and Snap were under the purview of Apple, and those companies could not monetize the game transactionally within the app, without giving a revenue cut to the iPhone maker.

The startup, which has a team of nearly 50 people, raised a total of $36.5 million in seed and Series A rounds. It expects to raise further capital after having some success with its first game. However, Horrigan told TechCrunch that the ultimate plan is to make revenue and become a profitable, self-sustained business over time.
It looks like Twitter isn’t the only one having to turn to rate limits — or limits on how many posts users can view and other in-app activities. In an amusing turn of events, Twitter’s latest rival, Instagram Threads, announced this afternoon that it, too, has to tighten up on rate limits due to spam attacks. Laughed Twitter owner Elon Musk in a reply to a screenshot of the announcement posted on Twitter, “Lmaooo Copy 🐈 [cat].”
As you may recall, Twitter earlier this month had to enforce new limits on how many tweets users could read as the service suffered an extended outage. Explained Musk at the time, Twitter was facing “extreme levels of data scraping” from hundreds of organizations and other “system manipulation.” As a result, Twitter chose to curb the problem by initially allowing Verified users (paying subscribers) to peruse a maximum of 6,000 posts daily, while unverified users could only view 600. After some backlash from users, Musk later increased the limits to 10,000 for Verified accounts, 1,000 for unverified accounts, and 500 for new, unverified accounts.

Over the weekend, Musk said he would increase the rate limit again for Verified users by 50%, which implies they would now be able to see 15,000 posts.

Twitter had been criticized for its unorthodox solution to the spam and bot problem, which some suggested wouldn’t have been an issue if Twitter hadn’t laid off such a large swath of its engineering staff. After all, not being able to scroll the Twitter timeline for long periods of time had never been an issue in the pre-Elon days (except, of course, in the earliest years when the fail whale was a regular occurrence).
Now it seems even Meta’s new app isn’t immune to the problem of bots and spam.
Instagram head Adam Mosseri explained the problem in a post on the Threads app this afternoon, noting that “Spam attacks have picked up so we’re going to have to get tighter on things like rate limits, which is going to mean more unintentionally limiting active people (false positives). If you get caught up [in] those protections let us know.”

In other words, the most prolific Threads users may face limits on their ability to use the app and view posts. Mosseri didn’t specify exactly how the rate limits could impact users. However, unlike Twitter’s hard limits on viewable posts, Mosseri is suggesting that people reach out if they start to experience any problems with the new system. That sounds like the Threads team is prepared to work with legitimate users to not negatively impact their experience.

In the replies to Mosseri’s announcement, several people are complaining that comment spam on the platform has gotten significantly worse in recent days, with one person even remarking that half their posts were seeing a response from bots, like gambling-related bots or “bait” messages. Another complained they were wasting half their time blocking bots pushing gambling and crypto sites.

Without getting bots and spam under control, Threads will be in the same boat as Twitter. Copycat, indeed.
Instagram’s Twitter clone Threads enjoyed a fairly fruitful first week in existence, sailing past 30 million users in the first 24 hours before passing 100 million signups within five days. And just yesterday, numbers from Data.ai indicated that Threads has now hit 150 million downloads.

However, another completely unrelated app has been inadvertently thrust into the spotlight off the back of Instagram’s attempt to capitalize on the Twitter mess.

Threads, a Slack alternative that launched out of stealth back in 2019 with backing from Sequoia Capital, has seen a significant increase in traffic to its website in the days following its new namesake’s launch. This is largely owing to the fact that Threads (the Slack alternative) owns the Threads.com domain name, whereas Instagram’s incarnation is on the less sexy Threads.net (though the app doesn’t have a web interface as of yet).

This also led Threads (the Slack alternative) to have a little fun at Instagram’s expense.
At any rate, this confusion led Threads (the Slack alternative) to see a major spike in downloads in the week immediately after Instagram launched its Threads. Between July 6 and July 12, figures provided to TechCrunch from Data.ai indicate that Threads had more than 880,000 downloads globally on iOS alone, having had “few downloads” prior to this point.
It was also the 52nd most downloaded app globally overall, and third in the “business” category. Interestingly, the top three markets where it saw its highest App Store rankings were Germany, Spain and Italy, where it averaged as the 10th most downloaded app that week between the three countries. This was probably because Instagram’s Threads isn’t yet available in the European Union, which will have contributed to the confusion.

It’s a similar story on Android too, with Threads now displaying more than 1 million downloads.

Off the back of all this, Threads has had to plaster “We are not associated with Instagram” messages on its website and App Store listing.
Name-check
Scenarios involving multiple companies sharing brand names is nothing new. There are countless companies called Lightyear, including two separate U.K.-based fintechs, a Dutch electric car startup and a New York-based telecom service procurement service. And there is, in fact, another startup called Threads, a chat-based shopping platform based out of the U.K. 

So Threads’ (the Slack alternative) predicament is hardly a new phenomenon, particularly when you consider that Instagram previously had a companion app called Threads which it launched in 2019 and shuttered two years later.

“Threads is a powerful word and an internet native term,” Threads co-founder and CEO Rousseau Kazi said in a stock statement issued to TechCrunch. “Using threads — on various platforms — is the best way to stay connected with your [.net]work or [.com]pany. Given this, it comes as no surprise that Meta chose a powerful label to represent their take at building the town square.”

Notably, Kazi also worked at Facebook (before it morphed into Meta) in a product management capacity for six years.

“Zuck (Mark Zuckerberg), Adam Mosseri (now Instagram CEO), and the team are easily some of the best mentors and minds I’ve got to work with and learn from,” Kazi added.

It’s worth noting that the visitors and downloads it has seen off the back of the confusion will unlikely have translated into new business, as disappointed users will have quickly realized that this was not what they were looking for. Though the profile boost the startup has enjoyed could be construed as great free publicity.

However, further down the line if, or when, Instagram’s Threads gains more traction, businesses will likely have to integrate it into their social media strategy. This could also get confusing for (would-be) customers of Threads (the Slack alternative), as companies would have to manage two completely separate communication platforms with the same name.

Threads did confirm to TechCrunch that it owns the trademark for its name, though it declined to answer any further questions on the matter, including whether it plans to initiate any action against Instagram or its parent Meta.
A Wall Street Journal article on Friday warns that Instagram’s new Twitter competitor Threads is already losing steam. Citing third-party data from Sensor Tower, the paper reports the number of daily active users on Threads dropped for the second week down to 13 million, a 70% decline from a July 7 high point. By comparison, Twitter’s daily active users are around 200 million. Despite this seemingly worrying trend, it’s far too soon to count Threads out yet. By other metrics, the app is continuing to grow its user base and traction in global markets, which, in time, could also boost its usage — especially as the app’s feature set improves.

It’s expected that a highly anticipated new app would have stellar usage numbers in its early days as users set up their accounts, find and follow friends, and test out the app’s capabilities. As the newness wears off, it’s also typical to see usage numbers drop as users return to their old habits while determining if and how they’ll continue to fit the new app into their daily routines. Plus, The WSJ points out, Meta executives said they planned for an eventual decline and don’t see this usage drop as worrisome.

We don’t either. Threads is still too new and too incomplete to make any sort of determination yet on its eventual fate. Could it be an early record-breaker that eventually flops? Sure. But it could also be a legitimate Twitter killer or mid-level success. It’s just too early to tell.

Launched on July 5 to global markets, excluding the EU, Threads topped 100 million users within days of its arrival — becoming the fastest app to achieve that milestone, ahead of Pokémon GO, according to app intelligence firm data.ai. During its first three days, it had 18.3% of the daily active users of Twitter, or 54.4 million to Twitter’s 298 million. By last week, data.ai estimated the app still had roughly one-fifth of the weekly active user base of Twitter.
App installs for Threads peaked on July 9, a few days after its launch, when 24.5 million people downloaded the app globally across iOS and Android, data.ai says. But though the initial buzz may be wearing off, the app has continued to clock in north of 1 million new downloads daily over the past several days, ranging from 1.76 million on July 16 to 1.06 million on July 20, for example. Any new app on the market would be thrilled to see numbers like these, though perhaps Threads should be judged more harshly because it has the advantage of the network effects delivered by the nature of its parent app Instagram and the broader resources of Meta.

Data.ai estimates the app has now seen 185.32 million cumulative global downloads.
Another key point to note is that Threads is catching on in emerging mobile markets where downloads are still growing. The U.S. is only its third-largest market, data.ai’s analysis shows. As of July 17, India and Brazil accounted for a larger number of installs, at 60.1 million (32.6%) and 40.2 million (21.8%), respectively. The U.S. delivered 27.8 million downloads or 15.1%. That’s why analytics firm Similarweb’s analysis of U.S. Android usage declines — 21 minutes on July 7 to 6 minutes on July 14 — aren’t able to tell the whole story.

Though Threads usage may have declined for now, as Sensor Tower data shows, its early usage numbers demonstrated its potential as a Twitter rival. In its first few days on the market, Threads users were spending 15 minutes on average per day on the app, across 9.4 app sessions. That’s more than the “microblogging” category averages, which data.ai says includes Twitter, Truth Social, Mastodon and Bluesky. Microblogging users then spent 12.5 minutes per day, on average, across 7.8 app sessions.

What’s stopping people from using Threads more as of late may not be disappointment with the concept of the app itself but rather its current feature set, as compared with Twitter. Threads, though now publicly available, is effectively still a beta — an unfinished app — without a number of the features users want in a microblogging tool, like a chronological timeline, following feed, the ability to view your likes, a fully functional web version, an edit button, support for multiple accounts and more. These features are still in the works, along with Threads’ planned integration with ActivityPub, the protocol powering open source Twitter alternative Mastodon.

In one thread on Threads (ha), in fact, users rushed to defend the app against the narrative that the app was dead, remarking that people should be more patient and wait for the needed features, and reminding others that even Instagram wasn’t an overnight success.

Another post, led by social media consultant Matt Navarra, asked “threads is…” To this, Instagram head Adam Mosseri replied “a work in progress.” Across hundreds of other replies, many posted positive messages, calling the app an “opportunity,” better than Twitter, an “inspiration,” “exciting” and more — an indication that Threads is already building a community of fans.

Another indication is the app’s U.S. App Store rating, a 3.8-star rating across 20,000 reviews. Diving into where it’s losing points, it seems many of those downrating the app are doing so due to its incomplete nature, calling it a “promising start” but removing stars for its lack of certain features. By comparison, Instagram has a 4.7-star rating and Facebook has a 2.3. Another thing Threads has in its favor, based on these reviews and other online conversations, is that the app, for now, feels “less toxic” than Twitter, several users have remarked.

While Twitter users are already dancing on Threads’ grave, thanks to The WSJ report, the reality is that it’s too early to report on Threads’ week two usage declines and come to the conclusion that Threads is dying. An app that breaks records out of the gate and continues to add users still has plenty of runway ahead and has time to deliver on the features people want, in order to regain traction.

Even seven-year-old Mastodon, the decentralized social networking Twitter rival, is continuing to grow in the wake of Elon Musk’s missteps with Twitter. After Twitter’s acquisition, Mastodon peaked at 2.5 million monthly active users. When Threads, launched, Mastodon had fallen to 1.7 million monthly users. It has since begun to grow again, now seeing 2.1 million monthly active users. These things ebb and flow.

There’s also an online culture that’s more willing to experiment with new apps — whether that’s Twitter alternatives like Threads and Bluesky, Reddit alternatives like Lemmy and Kbin, or new ways to network like TikTok instead of old-fashioned Facebook.

Plus, for Threads to succeed, Twitter doesn’t have to completely fail. Users can pick and choose between them or they can use both. It’s not necessarily a zero-sum game.

That said, Meta doesn’t have a great track record for launching successful new apps having shuttered nearly everything it built (instead of simply acquiring) over the years. Threads could one day become another app added to its graveyard.

But in the meantime, an app with now an estimated 116 million users and growing is far from being “dead.”
Threads exploded onto the crowded scene of aspiring Twitter rivals earlier this month, but it’s still very early days for the Instagram-adjacent text-first social network.

Meta released an update to the iOS version of the app on Tuesday, the second since its debut two weeks ago and the first to add any noteworthy features.
According to Threads developer Cameron Roth, the new iOS update offers a cluster of smaller changes along with one key missing feature: translations. Threads is available in many countries around the world, with the EU being one big exception, as Meta is currently embroiled in a fight over regulations that restrict its ad business there. Being able to translate posts in a foreign language is invaluable on an international social platform, although Instagram’s own translations in some languages can be nonsensical, from our experience.

Beyond the addition of translations, Threads is also adding a new “follows tab” on the activity feed, the part of the app that collects interactions like replies and mentions. Unfortunately the tab isn’t as exciting as it might sound, only letting you display all of your latest Threads followers.

The latest Threads update also adds some under-the-hood improvements to the activity feed, “tappable reposter labels,” the ability to subscribe to unfollowed users and an option to open a list of Instagram followers for a given user. While the update is out now, Roth says users may need to restart the app or wait until the end of the day to see the changes (they weren’t showing up for us yet, but if we find anything else surprising, you’ll hear about it).

Threads is extremely slick by the normal standards of a new social app, but still lacks many useful utilities that some users might deem to be essential. Since its launch, some Threads users have bemoaned the app’s lack of accessibility features like alt text at launch. Twitter rivals Mastodon and Bluesky already include customizable alt text for image descriptions — a tool seen as a basic standard of accessible app design.
Since Threads debuted, users have also been asking for a feed that only displays content from the people you follow. Right now that seems to be the main complaint about Threads — the algorithm serving up a brand-heavy mix of fresh content certainly doesn’t seem to be knocking it out of the park for much of anybody, yet at least.

While Instagram’s Adam Mosseri has indicated a follows-only feed of some kind is in the works, this is Meta we’re talking about — don’t count on a pleasantly ad-free or ad-lite chronological feed unsullied by an algorithm any time soon.

On July 5th, Meta released Threads into the world. Its arrival came after months of anticipation, but ultimately a bit earlier than Meta had planned. Elon Musk’s characteristically self-defeating move to limit free users to viewing a small number of tweets each day had given Meta an unusually opportune moment to strike, and it seized the moment.

The outsized success that followed — Threads was the fastest app to hit 100 million downloads, and later blew past 150 million — came as a surprise to almost everyone involved. That includes the app’s makers at Meta, who hadn’t built a homegrown hit this big since Facebook itself.

It was not for lack of trying. The company has released well over a dozen social apps over the past decade, many of them springing from a standalone division of the company devoted to that purpose. But few of them, if any, acquired millions of downloads. Even when it was attempting to copy the success of others, as it did with now-forgotten Snapchat clones like Poke and Slingshot, Meta mostly couldn’t get them off the ground.

I mention all this context because, as the early enthusiasm for Threads begins to fade, Meta is facing more questions about whether the app is here to stay. The analytics firm SimilarWeb estimated that Threads users had fallen from 49 million people 10 days ago to 23.6 million today, with time spent in the app declining from an average of 21 minutes per day to 6 minutes during the same period.

While third-party estimates are never totally reliable, these figures seem consistent with my own Threads experience. In those first few days, nearly everything I posted generated hundreds of likes and new followers; my phone vibrated so much that I could watch its battery drain in real time. This week, though, the response has been notably more muted.

So what’s going on?

In the New York Times, Mike Isaac noted that the notorious flop Google+ once claimed 90 million users, only to fall apart shortly after reaching those heights. I thought the comparison was worth raising: every social network struggles to retain users over time, and the bare-bones, 1.0 version of Threads displays little on the surface to suggest how it could overtake a much more established rival like Twitter.

It’s always a fool’s errand to judge the prospects of a new social network a couple weeks into its history. At the same time, if Threads does live up to its creators’ hopes, bringing decentralized apps into the mainstream, it could reshape the consumer internet in profound ways.

For that reason, I feel compelled to offer some early thoughts on why I believe Threads is on its way to fully supplanting Twitter in the role that company once played in shaping public conversation.

One, Threads proved decisively the demand for a new text-based conversation app. Until this month, it was unclear that tens of millions of people even wanted something Twitter-like in their lives. Twitter itself has been in a period of steep decline, and the various clones that have sprung up in its wake have stalled out in the low millions of users. That Threads attracted so many downloads in so short a period offers compelling evidence that lots of people have been waiting for a company to do public conversations the right way.

Two, Threads immediately attracted the sort of high-profile user base that made Twitter so addictive for so long. Within days, my feed was populated with posts from athletes like Shaquille O’Neal, journalists like Katie Couric and Ezra Klein, and comedians like Kathy Griffin. They brought an instant legitimacy to Threads that rivals like Mastodon never quite cracked. Other Twitter clones, particularly the decentralized ones, have struggled to persuade people that they aren’t just for nerds. Threads never had that problem.

Three, Instagram can serve as a long-term growth driver for Threads. One of the most impressive things about the Threads launch was how it connects to Instagram. A badge on your Instagram profile lets everyone know how early you joined Threads, spurring others to race to create accounts of their own. And from the start, Threads could be shared to Instagram stories with a couple of taps, bridging the two apps together in a smart and useful way. As both apps evolve, I expect we’ll see many more touches like this, with each leveraging its own strengths to promote the other.

Four, Meta still has many other growth levers it can pull — many of which simply involve building basic features the user base has already requested. It will soon let users post and browse from the desktop, for example. It will let users browse a feed of posts created only by users they follow — a must for news junkies. Once it works through various data privacy issues, Threads will come to the European Union, with its hundreds of millions of potential users. (It’s a good sign for Meta that EU citizens are so intent on using it the company has had to block them at the VPN level.)

Meta will also be able to promote Threads across its family of apps, in ways both expected and not. What happens once public figures on Facebook can add their most recent Threads posts to their pages? I bet we’ll find out.

Five, Twitter’s deterioration continues to accelerate. Ad revenue is down by 50 percent, according to Musk, and — despite the company choosing not to pay many of its bills — the company is losing money. Rate limits continue to make the site unusable to many free users and even some paid ones. Spam is overwhelming users’ direct messages so much that the company disabled open DMs to free users. The company has lately been reduced to issuing bribe-like payouts to a handful of hand-picked creators, many of whom are aligned with right-wing politics.

If that’s not a death spiral, what is? In Puck, William Cohan has written persuasively that Twitter could soon be subject to involuntary bankruptcy. And while that could be in Musk’s financial interests — making billions of dollars in debt disappear — the resulting chaos seems unlikely to restore the site to its former usability.

So that’s the case for Threads working out in the end. The demand is there, the product is good, and its chief rival is circling the drain. (Other rivals don’t seem to be faring much better; Bluesky, which had been my favorite Twitter alternative in recent weeks, has been mired in internecine conflict over the past week related to the use of racial slurs in user names. Even worse, from a growth standpoint, is that the app remains invite-only.)

Of course, lots could still go wrong for Meta. I’m particularly focused on what kind of posts are ultimately favored by Threads’ ranking algorithms.

Instagram head Adam Mosseri drew headlines for saying the company is “not going to do anything to encourage” posting about politics or “hard news.” To me, this sounded mostly like marketing — “come use our app where everyone is arguing about politics” likely would not have drawn 100 million people to download the app in a week. I suspect Threads will ultimately lean into whatever its users are doing, even if it means hosting lots of fractious debates about democracy and fascism.

But if Threads winds up writing Mosseri’s viewpoint here into the code, the app could be sapped of its lifeblood. Threads doesn’t only have to be about news, just as Twitter wasn’t. But the best version of Threads is an app where people go to learn about and discuss what’s happening in the moment, news included, and absent that the feed is going to feel like one more overstuffed shopping mall for a company that already has plenty of those. (The earliest days of Threads, when the timeline was dominated by brands posting cringey engagement-bait, offer a good roadmap for what the company should avoid.)

Ultimately, despite encroaching doubts among critics, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg seems unfazed.

“I’m very optimistic about how the Threads community is coming together,” he wrote in a Threads post today. “Early growth was off the charts, but more importantly 10s of millions of people now come back daily. That’s way ahead of what we expected.”

Indeed, it’s a rare thing for any social network to claim tens of millions of daily active users, much less one that is barely more than a minimum viable product. BeReal, one of the more prominent upstarts of the past couple years, announced it had 20 million daily users in April — and I imagine that number is smaller now.

To Zuckerberg, the concept has been proved out. The rest is simply an execution problem.

“The focus for the rest of the year is improving the basics and retention,” he wrote. “It’ll take time to stabilize, but once we nail that then we’ll focus on growing the community. We’ve run this playbook many times (FB, IG, Stories, Reels, etc) and I’m confident Threads is on a good path too.”
Last week, Meta debuted its Twitter competitor, Threads. The app gained over 100 million users in less than a week after launching in more than 100 countries, including the US and UK — but you won’t be able to download it in the European Union anytime soon. The app has been held up by what Meta spokesperson Christine Pai described to The Verge as “upcoming regulatory uncertainty,” widely assumed to refer to the EU’s Digital Markets Act (DMA).

Tech companies and regulatory skeptics have long claimed that laws like the DMA hold back innovation by requiring onerous user protections, but the looming competition law doesn’t stop Meta from introducing new products — and Meta hasn’t indicated it will forgo a European launch. If anything, the DMA adds friction to slow down a product’s launch and force the company to evaluate how it protects users before letting it out in the wild — even if it diminishes Threads’ popularity out of the gate. But there’s still plenty of uncertainty as companies wait for more guidance later this fall as well as an open question: will complying with Europe’s rules undercut the design that’s let Threads grow so quickly?

Pai and other Meta reps have declined to blame any one of Europe’s many tech regulations for the Threads delay. But interviews with Instagram head Adam Mosseri suggest the EU’s Digital Markets Act is at fault. The regulation, passed last year, includes a host of new rules that intend to rein in companies it’s defined as “gatekeepers” — which hit a certain user base and market cap threshold — from abusing their market power. Meta and other Big Tech companies like Google and TikTok, were formally designated as gatekeepers earlier this month, providing them with six months to prepare before any enforcement actions could take place. 

Mosseri attributed the postponement to a variety of issues. But he specifically noted rules preventing Meta from mixing the data it collects from users across products like Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp.

“It’s not just disclosures and consent. It’s also verifying that there’s no data leakage,” Mosseri told The New York Times’ Hard Fork podcast on Thursday. “You have to put in place processes and technology that all but guarantee that anything you say, you can verify; and usually multiple ways.”

The DMA prevents companies as big as Meta from reusing a user’s personal data — including their name and location — across its products for targeted advertising without user consent. Meta’s own privacy policy discloses that it collects and uses information across its products to serve users ads. Information from Apple’s App Store suggests that Threads could collect a wide array of sensitive data, including health and location data as well as a user’s contacts and search history.

It doesn’t look like Threads collects vast amounts more data than Meta’s other services, and the mere collection wouldn’t get it into trouble. It’s the DMA’s rules around data mixing, or combining all of the data it collects on users to build advertising profiles, that could break the rules. German regulators already ordered the company to stop combining WhatsApp and Instagram data without user consent back in 2019. The DMA would apply similar rules all across Europe, forcing the company to require European users to opt in before their personal information could be combined across platforms.

Targeted advertising is an issue for most Meta services, but it might not be the biggest problem Threads faces. Much of the app’s immediate success can be attributed to its connection with Instagram. In order to make an account on Threads, users must connect their Instagram accounts and use the same account names. Then, they can use Instagram to automatically follow the accounts they were already following on that platform on Threads. 

The problem is, the DMA bans gatekeepers from providing more favorable treatment to their own products on its platforms over that of its competitors, otherwise called “self-preferencing.” Self-preferencing has been used to describe how companies like Amazon and Google push their own products, like Amazon Basics and Google’s reviews, to the top of a user’s search results, putting their competitors at a disadvantage.

Georgios Petropoulos, Stanford Digital Economy Lab digital fellow, told The Verge in an interview on Thursday that Threads wasn’t an unambiguous self-preferencing case — but that it did raise concerns. “If it uses the existing popular products it has like Instagram, like Facebook, to promote this new platform, that could also be viewed as something,” said Petropoulos. “It’s not a clear violation of the self-preferencing obligation, but it could be considered this way.” The EU is expected to provide more guidance to companies this fall, potentially clearing up the confusion.

Meta has already been forced to unwind some of its products due to EU intervention in the past. In 2020, Germany’s competition watchdog began investigating Meta for requiring Oculus (now Quest) virtual reality headset users to sign in to their accounts with a Facebook login. Last year, Meta ultimately caved and untied the headsets from the social accounts. Threads’ Instagram login requirement could cause similar problems for Meta but with costlier consequences. The DMA allows for fines of up to 10 percent of a company’s annual revenue for violations and even up to 20 percent for repeated infringements as well as additional nonfinancial remedies. 

Many of the problems raised by the DMA could be solved by allowing users to create Threads accounts with just their emails, not Instagram accounts. Meta could decide to do this in the future. The question is whether that additional friction will slow the app’s tremendous growth — particularly because Meta took extra steps to make the app “sticky” thanks to Instagram, like only letting people delete their account if they sacrifice their Instagram account, too.

On Monday, Rob Sherman, Meta’s chief privacy officer for police, wrote on Threads that the app currently meets the EU’s GDPR privacy requirements, “but building this offering against the backdrop of other regulatory requirements that have not yet been clarified would potentially take a lot longer, and in the face of this uncertainty, we prioritized offering this new product to as many people as possible.”

In his Hard Fork interview, Mosseri suggested that Meta would need to create new systems to prove that Threads was following all of the EU’s rules.

Mosseri referred to the Threads launch as “a lot more of a yolo launch than anything we’ve done in awhile.” That breakneck launch speed may fly in the US, but some lawmakers in the EU seem fine with waiting for it to be available later. With Threads’ sudden success, it’s unlikely that Meta would refuse to launch the app in Europe forever — and since the app launched with bare-bones features and an awkward algorithmic feed, they might get a more fully baked platform as well as one with more privacy protections. 

“The fact that Threads is still not available for EU citizens shows that EU regulation works,” said Christel Schaldemose, a Danish lawmaker, according to Politico last week. “I hope Meta will make sure all rules are covered and complied with before opening up for EU citizens.”
Instagram’s new Threads app has already surpassed 100 million users, meaning it reached the milestone dramatically faster than even ChatGPT. OpenAI’s chatbot passed the mark after two months, but Threads, which only launched on Wednesday, got there in a matter of days. The number of users can be found in the Instagram app, which tracks the size of the Threads userbase.

Threads proved to be an early hit almost immediately. In the first two hours, it hit 2 million users and steadily climbed from there to 5 million, 10 million, 30 million, and then 70 million. The launch has been “way beyond our expectations,” CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Friday.

On Monday, Zuckerberg said in a Threads post confirming the milestone that the growth was “mostly organic:”

Instagram head Adam Mosseri also posted about it, likewise noting that it took just five days to get there:

Users aren’t just signing up: they’re posting, too. As of Thursday, my colleague Alex Heath reported that there have already been more than 95 million posts and 190 million likes shared on the app.

That said, Threads is still in its infancy, and we’ll have to wait and see if it captures the same cultural cachet that Twitter once did. Meta isn’t specifically targeting trying to replace Twitter, according to Instagram head Adam Mosseri, and the company isn’t going to actively encourage politics and hard news on the platform, but it could end up being the place people go for a conversation-based social media platform. And while Meta “couldn’t be more psyched” about how the launch week has gone, “we don’t even know if this thing is retentive yet,” Mosseri said.

Although the numbers aren’t directly comparable, as of last November Twitter had around 260 million monetizable daily active users, per a tweet from owner Elon Musk at the time. More recently, The Wall Street Journal reports it’s been telling advertisers that it has around 535 million monetizable monthly active users. But external data suggests Twitter’s traffic has been on a downward trend in recent months, with CloudFlare CEO Matthew Prince posting to say traffic is “tanking.”
Threads, the Twitter competitor created by Meta, has finally arrived after months of rumors, leaks, and a billionaire cage fight challenge between Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk. Now, you can access the new platform from its desktop site at Threads.net or by downloading the app for iOS and Android. (If you’re not seeing it on iOS or get an error, try force quitting the App Store and going back in.)

In an interview about the Threads launch with The Verge’s Alex Heath, Instagram head Adam Mosseri said, “Obviously, Twitter pioneered the space... but just given everything that was going on, we thought there was an opportunity to build something that was open and something that was good for the community that was already using Instagram.”

On Threads, you can create text-based posts with up to 500 characters as well as share photos and videos up to five minutes long. The app looks relatively similar to Twitter, featuring a minimal interface with the options to like, comment, repost, and share threads. Since Threads is closely tied to Instagram, you can log in with your Instagram username and easily follow all the same people you follow on the other platform.

Similar to Instagram, the main feed on Threads contains both recommended content and posts from people you follow. It doesn’t look like there’s an option to switch between streams of recommended and following-only content like there is on Twitter, however, but that’s always something Meta could add later.

Meta is extending some of Instagram’s privacy controls to Threads as well, such as the ability to filter out certain words in replies. You can also limit who can reply to your threads to everyone on the platform, people you follow, or only the users who you mentioned in your post.

Meta isn’t including Threads support for ActivityPub at launch. The decentralized social networking protocol, also used by Mastodon, would make it possible to transfer your information from Threads to another host, among other things.

“We believe this decentralized approach, similar to the protocols governing email and the web itself, will play an important role in the future of online platforms,” Meta says. “Threads is Meta’s first app envisioned to be compatible with an open social networking protocol — we hope that by joining this fast-growing ecosystem of interoperable services, Threads will help people find their community, no matter what app they use.”

The launch of Threads comes as Twitter imposes more restrictions on users, including a temporary rate limit barring unverified users from viewing more than 600 posts per day (or 300 posts for “new unverified” accounts). Twitter also blocked logged-out users from viewing tweets on the platform before quietly reversing the change and creating a new version of TweetDeck that requires a verified subscription.

Meta is launching Threads in over 100 countries, including the US, but it won’t be available in the European Union to start. Mosseri, who says he lives in Europe now, explained the decision not to launch there to The Verge:

The complexities with complying with some of the laws coming into effect next year are significant. We don’t want to launch anything that isn’t forward-compatible with what we know and what we think is coming. It’s just going to take longer to make sure not only that it’s compliant but that any claims we make about how we’ve implemented compliance stand up to our very high set of documentation and testing centers internally. 
Instagram Threads launched last night, and it’s the most commercial competitor to Twitter we’ve seen yet. While it will eventually tie into ActivityPub, the powerful decentralized network that Mastodon operates on, it’s just its own thing for now. And as with every microblogging platform that has popped up since Twitter began to shit the bed last year, one outstanding question has immediately presented itself:

What do we call these things?

No one seems to know! A number of people have been drawn to the word “post,” and post is a very accurate term. Your parents have heard of this word, and you can say it in polite company without having to explain yourself. But it’s also the name of one of these services, and frankly, it’s boring. It’s staid. Plus, apparently everyone on these new platforms is out to be an iconoclast, so on Bluesky they’re called “skeets” and Mastodon called them “toots” for years. (Though its developer tried to drop the term in November 2022.) In the early hours of Threads being open to the general public, people tried on “threet” and “tit” for size, as well as a whole slew of textile-related puns. (Too many people at The Verge insist we call them “zucks.”) These all seem like very bad ideas.

But you know what other word you can say in polite company without explanation? Tweet. Just say tweet! It has a definition in multiple dictionaries directly related to posting online. It’s a word that immediately connotes the specific kind of posting every microblog including Twitter has tended toward. Tweet is the perfect word to describe a quick short post published to a feed.

If you think “tweet” can only refer to Twitter, you’re wrong. Heck, Twitter didn’t even come up with the word!

In the early days of Twitter, they were just called “posts” or “updates.” Then, it was “twit” for a second. It wasn’t until Twitterific beta user Blaine Cook suggested “tweet” for Twitterific that we got the term we all use now. Twitterific’s developer, Craig Hockenberry, adopted “tweet” in 2007. Twitter itself didn’t adopt it until a year later.

In other words, tweet was arrived at naturally over the course of a couple of years. There was no weird push to find a name for the thing. It wasn’t decided via a committee of users (or a single trolling YouTuber) in the earliest days of the platform. Toots, skeets, threets, tits, whatever else — these are all emphatically stupid names developed with haste by people under duress. I say “duress” because anyone racing to adopt a new social media platform and quickly name its products could probably be doing better.

I understand if people are traumatized by the loss of Twitter. The site was once the best place to be messy or react to other people’s messiness. It was a town square for the terminally online. Then, it was purchased by a guy who keeps shitposting about how he could take Mark Zuckerberg in a fight. Its users have either logged off (I respect each and every one of you), or they’ve tried to seek out new homes at places like Bluesky, Mastodon, Hive, Post, Substack Notes, and even Tumblr.

And in the course of seeking out and establishing new homes online, they’ve tried to find something familiar. So they’re hunting for a pithy name to ascribe to microblog posts that isn’t post or tweet — but they just want to tweet. So we should just call them tweets. That’s the word we commonly use when discussing text-based microblogs. It’s worked for over a decade now, and I guarantee that, if you’re on Twitter and other platforms, you’ve already called posting your little blogs tweeting. I once very earnestly told a friend I’d be a second because I had to tweet something on my Tumblr. It’s a word that we all understand and have come to accept... even if it’s a bit twee.

And look: I know why you’re eager to distance yourself from Twitter. Most of us are in the same boat. Twitter is currently not a place many people want to associate with, unless they’re doing some weird performative stunt to ingratiate themselves with specific billionaires or political movements. It’s got a bad vibe, but the word tweet doesn’t need to!

We call tissue paper Kleenex and searching online googling, and while the company dislikes it, I guarantee you everyone you know calls all electronic paper E Ink. Genericizing trademarks is one of the ways we expand the bank of words we have at our disposal and find ways to quickly and succinctly communicate with our fellow humans. We shouldn’t just call them tweets because the alternatives are all excruciatingly terrible. We should call them tweets because it’s a service to the English language.
Threads is getting a “follows” tab, but it’s not the following-only feed that users have been asking for. As outlined in this post from Threads developer Cameron Roth, the new tab lives on the app’s activity page and only lets you see a list of users who recently followed you.

Threads previously listed your recent followers in its “all” tab on the activity page, so this isn’t that big of a change — it just makes your new followers easier to find. There are also two other filters for “quotes” and “reposts,” letting you filter recent activity by who reposted or quoted your thread.

Additionally, Threads is rolling out translations, which should come in handy if you follow people from different countries. While I’m not seeing the option myself just yet, Roth says the feature will appear at the bottom of a post, alongside the like, reply, repost, and share buttons.

Other minor changes include the ability to get notifications from users you don’t follow, improvements to activity feed scrolling, and the option to follow people from a post’s replies section. If you don’t see these changes right now, Roth says you might need to restart your app or wait until the end of the day. It’s still not clear when these changes will arrive on Android, though.

Hopefully, a following-only feed is on the way soon. That would make the app much more pleasant to use, as I’m starting to get tired of wading through all the posts from influencers, celebrities, and brands that I don’t have any desire to keep tabs on.
One of Instagram Threads’ most requested features is finally here: the Following tab that lets you see only the people you, er, follow. “Ask and you shall receive,” CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post on Threads quoting a user asking for the feature.

For those of us who have the Following feed, we can make it appear and disappear by tapping the home icon or the Threads logo at the top of the page. Annoyingly, if you reopen the app after it fully shuts down, it reverts to the “For You” feed, meaning you’ll have to know where to look to bring the Following feed up again — whether that’s a bug or not remains to be seen.

A Monday update promised new features in Threads, and the Following feed appears to be one of those additions; some, including a few of us here at The Verge, reported seeing the Following tab on the iOS and Android versions of the app Tuesday morning.

According to a post from Zuckerberg on his Instagram broadcast channel, Threads has added translations as well. You can get a translation by tapping a small button on the bottom right of a Threads post.

Threads launched with a very barebones set of features, and until now, your feed was filled exclusively with algorithm-determined posts from users and brands, whether you wanted it to be or not.
Instagram’s new Threads app is “not going to do anything to encourage” politics and “hard news,” Instagram boss Adam Mosseri said in a Threads conversation with The Verge’s Alex Heath.

The additional scrutiny, negativity, and integrity risks that come with politics and hard news aren’t worth the “incremental engagement or revenue,” Mosseri wrote. “There are more than enough amazing communities — sports, music, fashion, beauty, entertainment, etc. — to make a vibrant platform without needing to get into politics or hard news.” (Mosseri’s strong point of view here is likely informed by his time running Facebook’s News Feed.)

In recent years, Meta has distanced itself from news and politics, including reducing the amount of political content that users see on Facebook. It even dropped “News” from the name of the Facebook Feed last year. The company also responded to a new Canadian law that would require it to pay for local news by saying it will yank news from Facebook and Instagram in the country.

The Instagram boss later clarified his initial response, stating that while Threads won’t “discourage or down-rank news or politics,” it won’t “court” them as Facebook has in the past. “If we are honest, we were too quick to promise too much to the industry on Facebook in the early 2010s, and it would be a mistake to repeat that,” Mosseri said.

While Threads is assuredly a take on Twitter, a platform tying itself in knots under new ownership, Mosseri is apparently thinking much bigger. Following along with his boss, Mark Zuckerberg's statement about finding a “clear path to 1 billion people,” Mosseri said:

The goal isn’t to replace Twitter. The goal is to create a public square for communities on Instagram that never really embraced Twitter and for communities on Twitter (and other platforms) that are interested in a less angry place for conversations, but not all of Twitter.

Threads launched on Wednesday and has proven to be a big hit; it’s already surpassed 70 million signups. But the vibe, so far, is decidedly not like what you might be familiar with from Twitter: the only available feed is an algorithmic one, and that feed is already flooded with celebrities and brands.

Still, it seems inevitable that politics and news will trickle onto Threads in some way, especially if politicians and journalists use the platform during the 2024 presidential election cycle. And Instagram is working on a feed just for people you follow and a chronological feed, which, at least for me, should make Threads a much more useful place to find news. But it sounds like Instagram won’t be going out of its way to make Threads what Twitter once was — so don’t get your hopes up for some kind of Thread-Deck.
While Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk are still preparing for a possible cage match, starting today, their two companies are officially battling.

Meta has released Threads, its standalone Twitter competitor that is based on Instagram’s account system. According to the head of Instagram, Adam Mosseri, Twitter’s “volatility” and “unpredictability” under Musk provided the opening to compete. In an interview, Mosseri says that Threads is designed for “public conversations,” a direct reference to how Twitter execs have described the purpose of the service over the years.

“Obviously, Twitter pioneered the space,” according to Mosseri. “And there are a lot of good offerings out there for public conversations. But just given everything that was going on, we thought there was an opportunity to build something that was open and something that was good for the community that was already using Instagram.”

Meta has been planning to release Threads, its self-described “sanely run” version of Twitter, for a while. The backlash to Musk’s recent limiting of how many tweets people can see per day was a catalyzing event for getting the app out the door this week, according to internal company documents I’ve seen. They also say that Meta expects “tens of millions” of people to try Threads within the first few months of availability.

As Mosseri describes it, Threads is a “risky endeavor,” especially since it’s a new app people have to download. Meta has made the onboarding process easier by letting you auto-populate your account info and follow list from your Instagram, which I was able to do quickly after being granted access to Threads earlier today.

Another dynamic Threads has to contend with is that Twitter has been around for a long time and built up a unique network that is hard, if not impossible, to replicate. Even with Musk’s antics over the past several months, it’s clear Meta knows that unseating Twitter won’t be easy. “I think it’d be a mistake to underestimate both Twitter and Elon,” says Mosseri. “Twitter has got a lot of history; it has an incredibly strong and vibrant community on it. The network effects are incredibly strong.”

Threads is strikingly similar to Twitter in key ways. The app’s main feed shows posts (or, as Mosseri calls them, “threads”) from accounts you follow, along with accounts recommended by Instagram’s algorithm. You can repost something with your own commentary, and replies are featured prominently in the main feed. There is no feed of only people you follow, though that could be added later.

Posts on Threads can be up to 500 characters long and include photos or videos that are up to five minutes long. There are no ads, at least for now — adding those will be a “champagne problem” if Threads achieves enough scale, per Mosseri.

There also isn’t a paid verification scheme that unlocks additional functionality, though Instagram’s blue checks will port over to Threads accounts. With some exceptions for extreme cases like the sharing of child exploitation imagery, moderation actions Meta takes against a Threads account will not impact its associated Instagram account, according to internal documents I’ve seen.

Thanks to the deep ties between Threads and Instagram, you can quickly share posts from Threads to your Instagram story or feed. There’s also the ability to share links to Threads posts in other apps, which Mosseri predicts will be helpful as “we try to bootstrap it out from nothing.”

Meta has been busy this week onboarding a bunch of celebrities from the worlds of Hollywood, music, professional sports, business, and the like to Threads ahead of its public release. Celebs already spotted on the app include Karlie Kloss, Tony Robbins, Dana White, Gordon Ramsay, Ellie Goulding, Jack Black, Russell Wilson, and the Brazilian pop star Anitta.

Threads is initially available in 100 countries, including the US, but not in the European Union. It’s being excluded from the EU initially due to “the complexities with complying with some of the laws coming into effect next year,” according to Mosseri. That’s likely a reference to the Digital Markets Act, which imposes a bunch of new legal obligations on so-called “gatekeeper” platforms like Meta.

Meta plans to eventually hook Threads into ActivityPub, the decentralized social media protocol that also powers Mastodon. That integration isn’t ready at launch, though, as I previously reported. When it’s enabled, Threads users will be able to interact with Mastodon users and take their accounts with them to other clients that support the ActivityPub standard.

As Mosseri puts it, this is a move designed to appease creators who have grown increasingly wary of relying on the whims of centralized social media companies. “I think we might be a more compelling platform for creators, particularly for the newer creators who are more and more savvy, if we are a place where you don’t have to feel like you have to trust us forever,” he says.

In terms of what success looks like for Threads, Mosseri tells me that he isn’t interested in killing Twitter or even getting the app to Instagram-level scale of over 1 billion users: “It would be great if it gets really, really big, but I’m actually more interested in if it becomes culturally relevant than if it gets hundreds of millions of users.”

You can read my full interview with Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, below. The following transcript has been lightly edited for clarity:

I’m curious how this project started. Whose idea was it? What was the strategy?

Well, a couple of different things. The idea at a high level is we have this amazing creative community on Instagram. We have amazing creators on the platform. Obviously, Twitter pioneered the space, and there are a lot of good offerings out there for public conversations, but just given everything that was going on, we thought there was an opportunity to build something that was open and something that was good for the community that was already using Instagram.

And so we wanted to see what that might look like. Is it a tab in the app? Is it bringing text to feed? Is it a separate app? A bunch of different people [inside Meta] were playing in this space, as you can imagine. You’ve got a lot of sources, I know. I’m sure you heard a bunch of different things. People all over the company were playing. What we tried to do is pull everything together into a more focused effort so that instead of building a bunch of things not that well, we could try to place a meaningful, risky, but compelling bet together. So that all came together in the late winter.

Was there anything specific with how Elon Musk is handling Twitter that led you all to move now? There are a lot of things one could point to, I think.

I think it’d be a mistake to underestimate both Twitter and Elon. Twitter has got a lot of history; it has an incredibly strong and vibrant community on it. The network effects are incredibly strong. A bunch of advertisers pulling their budgets doesn’t necessarily affect the network engagement at all; in fact, it might even help and not hurt over the long run.

I do think there’s a lot more noise around Twitter than there was. Just the volatility and the unpredictability of what seemed to be going on there seemed like it might present an opportunity. If things like stability started to become an issue or if they changed the product too drastically, those were things that might leave an opening for us in a space that otherwise looked pretty particularly difficult to compete in.

I want to be clear: any time you build a new app from scratch, it is much less likely to succeed than to succeed. So this is still a risky endeavor, but it just seemed like the landscape was changing. People were interested in having alternative options to have public conversations. It’s not just us playing in the space in addition to Twitter, obviously. And we have this really strong, vibrant creator community. So it just seemed worth at least putting a small team together to explore some ideas. And then when we had a design and a direction we were excited about, then we were like, “Alright, let’s take a swing and let’s see what happens.”

Why do it as a standalone app off of Instagram?

It was a hugely contentious debate internally. You could be in feed. You could be a separate tab. You could be a separate app. The challenge with text posts in feed is that the post and comment model just fundamentally does not support public discourse as well as the model that Twitter pioneered with tweets and replies. Treating replies as equal as opposed to subordinate somehow just allows for a very different and much more broad range of public conversations. People do post text to Instagram all the time, even though we don’t support it first class, and we’re experimenting with that, too. That’s great, but I think it solves a much smaller use case than public discourse more broadly.

Then there’s a separate app versus separate tab. Separate tab is tough. There’s only so much stuff you can shove in the app. It’s already feeling too complicated. We’re trying to actually simplify right now, and so it’s certainly working against that. And generally, when you build a separate tab, you find you want to push all that distribution through a feed invariably in order to bootstrap it. You kind of end up right back in that first problem.

A separate app is way less likely to succeed because you have to bootstrap a user base from very little or from nothing. But if you do it, if you succeed, the upside is so much more significant. You’ve got more space to play with. You’ve got a different mental model with a new space. With a new app comes the opportunity to have people think about what they can do in that space much more differently than trying to climb from under the shadow of what the app has been for before. Most people still think of Instagram as primarily a photo sharing, feed app, and all the growth and sharing on Instagram for half a decade has been in stories and in messaging. But we still have that identity because that’s our heritage. And so a new app allows you to shape that in a way, too.

So, higher beta. More risk, more possible reward. Not everything we do like this is going to work, but we should always be placing a couple of high-risk bets like this if we’re going to hope to really evolve forward as fast as I think we need to as a company.

I’m sure naming this the name of another standalone app that you all shut down a couple of years ago, the irony of that is not lost on you?

It is not.

And you know this, too: You all’s track record on launching standalone apps in-house, they don’t tend to live after several years. Do you have any conviction that this time will be different? You described this as a bet. Are you all committing to it long term?

If we’re going to build a separate app, it makes no sense to do it if you’re only going to do it for six months or a year. You have to give it a real run. You have to assume that out of the gate, it doesn’t succeed [and] that you get a bunch of things wrong, and you need to learn and adapt.

I’ve been involved in a handful of new apps over the years. I do think the mistakes we made in the early years was building something that was too much like Facebook. It was just a different version of Facebook. So why would you even do it? Facebook Home, which I was involved in, which was the same content as Facebook. Paper was the same content, just a different design from Facebook. Then I think we actually pivoted too far away from that. We kind of overcorrected toward things that didn’t seem to really lean on any strategic strengths that we had. We were just building a bunch of different apps.

My hope with this, with Threads — which I am telling you is very risky, but I am also telling you I’m more excited about this than I have been about any of the other projects — is that it’s the right balance. We have a community that is interested. You can bring your identity from Instagram over to Threads. You can bring all the accounts you follow over to Threads with you. The two apps are interconnected and can promote each other and help each other. But it is sufficiently a different use case — public conversation — than visual sharing, which is obviously our bread and butter, that I’m hoping it’s the right balance. But we’ll see.

The ActivityPub element of this I’m fascinated by. I reported that the plan was recently to integrate with that in a few months or so. It’s not happening on day one. Why not do that at launch, and why are you doing that at all?

Let’s start with why we are doing it at all. I do think that more and more people are going to be interested in and appreciate more open systems. And I think that’s the direction of travel for the industry. That’s going to be a painful shift for a lot of the larger platforms that already exist out there. But as people become more and more savvy about the benefits and the risks involved with using any of these platforms, then I think they’re going to be demanding more.

Creators are a really good example. Creators are becoming more and more savvy. They’re using more and more platforms. It’s becoming rarer that a creator is completely attached to one platform because they’re always worried about the risk of being overly beholden to one company that they obviously can’t control. So I do think this is the direction of travel, and I think that a new app offers us the opportunity to really step into this space. It would be very, very difficult to take an existing app like Instagram and then integrate it.

But this allows us to learn because we’re going to get a lot of criticism and a lot of feedback on how we integrate with ActivityPub and the Mastodon networks. I’ve already learned a lot from talking to people in the community. This is us leaning into where I think the world is going. And also, it has some really kind of nice benefits. I think the average creator today on Instagram probably doesn’t know what Mastodon or ActivityPub is and probably doesn’t need to. But when you start to think through the logical implications, or at least the opportunities of integrating fully over the long run, I think some pretty interesting opportunities arise.

The one that I think resonates the most with creators, in my experience, is that you should own your audience. If you decide to leave Threads one day, you should be able to bring your audience with you. I’ve talked about this idea in a couple of different contexts. There are, I think, better ways to do this over the long run, but I do think ActivityPub allows you to support that. I think we might be a more compelling platform for creators, particularly for the newer creators who are more and more savvy, if we are a place where you don’t have to feel like you have to trust us forever or you can build up an audience, and then you can bring that audience with you elsewhere if you really have to at the end of the day.

That’s just one example of a benefit. I think there will be more over time. It’s a combination of trying to lean into where the world is going, trying to empower creators, and also trying to learn and be honest and humble about the fact that we [Meta] come from a very different phase of the internet. We know that we need to evolve, or else we run the risk of becoming irrelevant. And so, let’s be open-minded, let’s try some new things, let’s learn, and let’s adapt.

And not shipping it [ActivityPub integration] at launch? Is that just because...

We just didn’t have time. It requires a bunch more work. Think about everything we have to do. Like, if you’re building safety classifiers, you need to be able to run those classifiers on datasets that aren’t our typical datasets, right? If you’re following accounts on other servers in the Threads app, how do we classify that content? There’s a bunch of engineering work there. How do reporting flows work? How does strikes with accounts work? How does ranking work?

We knew it was going to slow us down. We were hoping to launch with support. But we got to a point where I was just like, “Look, we have to go because I think our window is going to close otherwise.” And we just have to fast follow with this as quickly as we can. If that’s a while later, it’s a while later. And that’s unfortunate. But at some point, I think timing is everything. I didn’t want us to miss our window entirely.

Did you want encrypted direct messages (DMs) in Threads?

To start, we don’t want to do any DMs. I don’t know if that’s going to last as a decision, but particularly in the US, I think people have a little bit of inbox fatigue. We all have a lot of different inboxes that we manage. What do you use for your sources? Signal?

Yeah, Signal. But Twitter is a top-of-funnel thing. There’s that from-tweet-to-DM loop that happens.

Yeah, exactly. But there’s iMessage. There’s Facebook Messenger for a bunch of people more on Android than iOS here in the US. There is obviously Instagram DMs, which has been really on fire lately. I live in Europe now, where WhatsApp is what everyone lives on.

The idea was to lean into openness, to allow people to share threads on other DM networks. And ideally, that would happen on Instagram DMs, but it could happen anywhere. And we’ll see if that is sufficient. Maybe it’s not for a modern social network, but maybe it is. And if it is, we get to avoid further fragmenting the space, and we get the benefit of allowing people to raise awareness of threads on any network, which could be good as we try to bootstrap it out from nothing.

Why is Threads not available in the European Union? That seems like a huge missed market opportunity. Is that due to uncertainty about the Digital Markets Act?

The complexities with complying with some of the laws coming into effect next year are significant. We don’t want to launch anything that isn’t forward-compatible with what we know and what we think is coming. It’s just going to take longer to make sure not only that it’s compliant but that any claims we make about how we’ve implemented compliance stand up to our very high set of documentation and testing centers internally.

To be really honest, I’m bummed about it. I’ve been living outside of the US for a year now. I’m on a total kick pushing teams [inside Meta] to stop leaving things half-launched and get them out to the rest of the world. I meet creators who are asking questions like, “Do I need to move to the US to get access to such and such feature?” And it breaks my heart. But this one is just going to take a bunch of time.

But it is coming eventually to the EU?

That’s the plan.

The same moderation rules will apply from Instagram to Threads?

Yeah, in the app, it’s the same community guidelines.

And I assume you’ll have a similar monetization model? There will eventually be ads in there as well?

If we are successful, if we make something that lots of people love and keep using, we will, I’m sure, monetize it. And I would be confident that the business model will be ads. Right now, we are not focused on monetization. We’re very, very focused on just trying to make something that people love to use. And then, if we get something to scale, that’ll be a champagne problem.

Is success killing Twitter?

I don’t think so. I think time has shown that there’s room for multiple players in different spaces. There are definitely network effects, and there are definitely competitive effects. But I think you look at a lot of countries around the world, and there’s a couple of major players in the social space between messaging and stories and feeds and in any combinations thereof. Brazil is a really good example. Instagram is on fire in Brazil, and WhatsApp status is enormous in Brazil. And they both continue to grow really rapidly over the last couple of years, despite the fact that they’re both huge.

I think Twitter will continue to exist. I think success will be creating a vibrant community, particularly of creators, because I do think this sort of public space is really, even more than most other types of social networks, a place where a small number of people produce most of the content that most everyone consumes. So I think it’s really about creators more than it is about average folks who I think are much more there just to be entertained.

I think [we want] a vibrant community of creators that’s really culturally relevant. It would be great if it gets really, really big, but I’m actually more interested in if it becomes culturally relevant and if it gets hundreds of millions of users. But we’ll see how it goes over the next couple of months or probably a couple of years.
The brand-new Following feed in Meta’s Threads won’t always stick around if it’s your preferred way to use the app.

The much-needed Following feed is unfortunately a bit hidden: you can make it appear by tapping the home icon at the bottom of the screen or the Threads logo at the top. Once you see it, you can switch between “Following,” which shows posts in reverse-chronological order, and “For You,” which is the algorithmically sorted feed the app has offered since launch.

But a few of us at The Verge noticed that Threads will occasionally rehide the Following feed and bring you back to the For You feed after you open the app. (You can test it for yourself by force closing and reopening the app.) Unfortunately, it sounds like that’s by design, based on a statement from Meta.

“For You is the default experience when you open the Threads app,” Meta spokesperson Seine Kim tells The Verge. We’ve asked Kim if Meta plans to add a way to set Following as a default in the future.

Having no way to make Following the default is a particularly annoying decision if you want to regularly use the app to get caught up on the latest news. Although, given that Instagram boss Adam Mosseri has said that Threads isn’t for news and politics, this For You / Following behavior perhaps shouldn’t come as a surprise. (Instagram also deprioritizes the Following feed by hiding it behind a nondescript arrow next to the Instagram logo.)

Elon Musk’s X / Twitter also tried to push users toward its “For You” feed by making it the default in January, but it reversed that decision shortly after.
From muting accounts to scheduling break reminders, here’s how to get the most out of Meta’s recent social media app.

THREADS, META’S NEW Twitter competitor, still has that new-app smell as millions of users figure out what to post on the platform. Right now, Threads’ vibe is very “corporate afterparty hosted by Wendys,” and that’s perfectly fine! I’m not here to judge where you choose to share memes and scroll away your afternoon. Keep on posting, posters. And keep on lurking, lurkers. I see you.

Even so, it’s worth acknowledging that Threads gathers a lot of personal information about you; Meta’s other apps, like Facebook and Instagram, collect similar amounts of data. For anyone not feeling Threads, there are plenty of alternatives for you to avoid this social media app.

Threads remains nascent, and some settings you may expect in a social network might not yet be available. The app is likely to morph and add more features as Meta grows the team assigned to the project. (Seriously, where’s my chronological feed?) For anyone trying out Threads (Android, Apple) and getting more acquainted with the app, here are a few, worthwhile settings to help you get started.

Mute Anyone You Find Annoying
The primary feed of posts is picked by Meta’s algorithm, so you and the Mute button are about to become besties. Other feed options may become available, but here’s how to silence the brands for now. Whenever you see a post that’s annoying, mute the account by tapping on the three dots in the top right corner of the post, then choose Mute. Want to go even further when smiting accounts from your feed? The Block option is also presented for accounts you don’t follow. For accounts you already follow but decide against, go to their Threads profile, tap on the three dots at the top right of the profile, and select Block.

Control Who Mentions You
Protect your mentions! You get to choose whether people can post your account handle in a way that directly leads to your profile. Open your profile page on Threads and select the two lines at the top. Then tap Privacy and Mentions. The app allows you to choose between allowing everyone to link to your account, only people you follow, or no one at all.

Lock Down Those Replies
Control your Threads experience even further by choosing who gets to be your reply guys. You can do this on a post-by-post basis. As you’re crafting a new post on Threads, tap on Anyone can reply in the bottom left corner. This will let you choose if the post’s open to replies from everyone, from people you follow, or just the accounts you mention in the post.

Screenshot of a text post inside of the Threads app
If your Threads profile is set to private, this option will say Your followers instead. THREADS VIA REECE ROGERS
Tweak Incoming Notifications
Distracted by all of the notifications from Threads? (We get it, you’re popular!) Pare it down by going to your profile, then tapping on the two lines in the top right corner and Notifications. Here’s where you can adjust the push notifications coming from Threads. There’s an option to pause everything, or you can manage notifications on a more granular level as well.

Take a Break
Boundaries are crucial, and social media apps are designed to keep you scrolling for hours. Spending too much of your life on the Threads app? Go to your profile, tap on the two lines in the top right corner. Then select Account and Take a break. Here, you can choose how many consecutive minutes you’d like to scroll on the app before Threads nudges you to do something else for a bit.

Screenshot of a Settings menu inside of the Threads app
The current options available for break reminders are set at 10, 20, or 30 minute intervals. THREADS VIA REECE ROGERS
Add a Link on Your Profile
Maybe you’re an artist who wants to show off their portfolio? Or maybe you want to promote your other social media accounts? No matter the reason, it’s simple to add a clickable link to your bio on Threads. Just visit your profile and choose Edit profile. Add the website you’d like to the Link section and tap Done.
This week Twitter got yet another competitor: Meta’s Threads. Enough is enough. Don’t join. This has to stop.

THIS WEEK, META rolled out a new microblogging service called Threads, joining the increasingly crowded field of platforms trying to replace Twitter.
On Wednesday, Threads' launch day, Mark Zuckerberg posted about his desire to usurp Elon Musk’s broken social network: “I think there should be a public conversations app with 1 billion+ people on it. Twitter has had the opportunity to do this but hasn’t nailed it,” he wrote. “Hopefully we will.”

Meta will have to beat a throng of other would-be Twitter killers, including Bluesky, Mastodon, Post News, Spoutible, Cohost, Hive Social, T2 Social, and Spill, in addition to conversation platforms aimed at right-wing users, like Truth Social, Gettr, and Gab, as well as established social networks now courting disenchanted Twitter users, like Tumblr and Substack.

Threads may be slightly late to the party, but it does have a distinct advantage: It is tightly integrated with Instagram, which remains enormously popular. Joining Threads is familiar and simple—it appears precision-designed to be easy enough for any Facebook-using Boomer to grasp—especially compared with rivals like Mastodon, which requires users to pick a “federation” to join, or Bluesky, which is still invite-only, requiring aspiring skeeters to scrounge up an access code to join. In contrast, if you know how to log on to Instagram, you know how to use Threads. You can keep the same handle and port over your followers, too.

The appeal of jumping onto a new platform without starting from scratch is considerable. Brands and influencers value these digital spaces for growing their audiences, so making a version preloaded with an audience from another social network is ideal. Plus, even regular people don’t love the feeling of logging on to a platform where their follower count hovers around zero. Zuckerberg claims more than 30 million people joined Threads in its first 24 hours; even if he is exaggerating by half, it would still mean Threads is leapfrogging over other alternatives in terms of sheer volume of sign-ups.

Then again, early reviews from extremely online types are overwhelmingly negative. (​​“It is funny that Zuck rolled out a Twitter Killer and it took less than 24h for everyone to decide it is irrevocably Ass,” writer Noah Kulwin tweeted, summarizing the mood.) So there’s no guarantee the early adopters on Threads will stick around. Like Meta’s ersatz TikTok copycat, Reels, the platform could become a dupe for dorks, destined to fester in the shadow of its original. 

And getting people to sign up is just the first step. While Threads has already proved adept at coaxing celebrities and brands onboard, big names and big corporations don’t necessarily translate to a lively conversation. In fact, they may create a dull, antiseptic environment, a community of brand managers trading workshopped puns back and forth from their verified accounts.

It’s far too soon to say whether Threads will take off. Or, for that matter, whether any of these competitors can scale into real Twitter substitutes. What is painfully clear is that we, the people of the internet, need to draw a line in the sand. Then we need to dump concrete into that line so it cannot be swiftly eroded by waves, or whatever.
What is painfully clear is that we, the people of the internet, need to draw a line in the sand. Then we need to dump concrete into that line so it cannot be swiftly eroded by waves, or whatever.

This is a call for a moratorium. No more Twitter replacements. Don’t sign up for any of them!

No one can stop tech companies from launching new platforms. But people can refuse to join. It’s obnoxious enough to toggle between microblogging apps, tweeting and skeeting and tooting the same words to slightly different audiences. Adding threading to the mix is too much. I’ve already seen the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, copying and pasting to skeet a tweet. It’s no way to live.

FEATURED VIDEO


 

MOST POPULAR
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
SCIENCE
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
MATT SIMON

Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
CULTURE
Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
JOHN SEMLEY

A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
SCIENCE
A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
EMILY MULLIN

‘Now I Am Become Death, the Destroyer of Worlds.’ The Story of Oppenheimer’s Infamous Quote
SCIENCE
‘Now I Am Become Death, the Destroyer of Worlds.’ The Story of Oppenheimer’s Infamous Quote
JAMES TEMPERTON

Replicating the dynamic Twitter cultivated is unlikely. It’ll be flat-out impossible if these clones keep coming, fracturing the global conversation Twitter presented at its best into dozens of inferior smaller channels, none able to achieve the network effect necessary to function as a true hub for public discourse—or even just a fun place to shitpost. None of the current substitutes is perfect, but diluting the pool further will only weaken our existing options. I’d like to see Twitter restored to its pre-Musk functionality—but if that’s not going to happen, I’d rather pick one of the many wannabe water coolers I’ve already downloaded instead of cycling through imitator after imitator.

The age of platforms is waning. Each time a new knockoff appears to approximate what Twitter used to be, we only get further from fixing it.
Meta’s Twitter alternative promises that it will work with decentralized platforms, giving you greater control of your data. You can hold the company to that—if you don't sign up.
AS META’S TWITTER competitor, Threads, started generating buzz ahead of yesterday’s launch, curious netizens spotted a placeholder listing for the app in Apple’s App Store. Like all iOS apps, the listing included details about the user data the app is designed to collect and track. And observers couldn’t help but notice that this brand-new app was already listing a whopping 14 categories of data that “may be collected and linked to your identity.” 
It might be a jarring reminder, but this is par for the course with Meta-owned apps, which the company monetizes by selling targeted ads and personalized marketing. Facebook and Instagram’s iOS apps list even more categories than Threads, the Messenger app lists about as many, and even the secure messaging app WhatsApp discloses nine categories of “Data Linked to You.” So for people fed up with Twitter’s rapidly deteriorating platform (and vibes), a Meta-owned alternative—with its predictability and relative stability—could even potentially appeal to those who are generally concerned about data privacy. 

Early data suggests as much: Threads, which is directly linked to users’ Instagram accounts, saw 10 million sign-ups in its first seven hours, according to CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Ultimately, Meta’s pitch for Threads is simply that it’s the devil you know.

But one thing is different this time: Meta is dangling an opportunity to essentially be on Threads without signing up for the platform at all. The company announced yesterday that it is planning to make Threads interoperable with other, non-Meta social networks that support a decentralized protocol already used by WordPress and 2022’s decentralization poster child, Mastodon. This means that if Meta follows through, you’ll be able to see and interact with Threads content from other platforms and services that support the standard, which is known as ActivityPub.

Meta says that Threads will start supporting ActivityPub “soon,” a descriptor that doesn’t necessarily inspire confidence. The company has already spent years, for example, working on its longtime promise of default end-to-end encryption on Messenger. But incorporating decentralization into Threads, and specifically supporting ActivityPub, has reportedly been a core aspect of Meta’s vision for the app from the beginning. Meta has also already sketched out details of the plan in its supplemental privacy policy for Threads.
All of this means that if you’re sick of Meta’s data-gobbling ways, or you don’t already have an Instagram account and don’t want to get one, you actually have some leverage: Don’t join Threads. Use Mastodon or another ActivityPub platform until Threads comes to you. Or hang out on Bluesky, which doesn’t support ActivityPub but is working on its own vision of a decentralized, portable social network.

FEATURED VIDEO


Scam Fighters Answer Scam Questions From Twitter

MOST POPULAR
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
SCIENCE
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
MATT SIMON

The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
CULTURE
The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
RAMIN SKIBBA

Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
CULTURE
Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
JOHN SEMLEY

A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
SCIENCE
A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
EMILY MULLIN

“The fact that large platforms are adopting ActivityPub is not only validation of the movement towards decentralized social media, but a path forward for people locked into these platforms to switch to better providers. Which in turn, puts pressure on such platforms to provide better, less exploitative services," Mastodon CEO Eugen Rochko wrote in a blog post ahead of yesterday’s Threads launch.

Easy examples of decentralized services you already intuitively understand are phones and email. You can call anyone on any number, even if you and the person you’re calling buy phone service from different companies. Same with email. Even if pretty much everyone you know uses Gmail, there’s nothing materially different about emailing with the Yahoo and Hotmail holdouts in your life. And maybe your friend Jane runs her own email server and her address is jane@janerox.com. Love that for you, Jane—doesn’t change anything for anyone else.

That’s it. That’s how “the fediverse,” or federated services, work too. You join a server, and you’re trusting that server with your data. But then you can communicate with all the other servers running the same protocol, and the only data everyone on all those other servers can see from you is the content you choose to put out there. So Gmail has all of your emails and usage history, and Jane has all of her own emails and usage history, but the only data she has about you on her server is the emails you’ve sent her. And the only data Gmail has about Jane comes from her interactions with you and any other Gmail users.

Decentralization doesn’t change the basic functions of a social network, and that’s fine. The whole point of these services is to be a platform for publicly posting and consuming information. They aren’t designed around implementing end-to-end encryption. The servers still have access to user data and can be subpoenaed by governments or hacked. But decentralization creates a model through which users can elect to entrust their information to servers based on which ones have less-predatory data practices.
Ross Schulman, senior fellow for decentralization at digital rights nonprofit the Electronic Frontier Foundation, notes that if Threads emerges as a massive player in the fediverse, there could be concerns about what he calls “social graph slurping." Meta will know who all of its users interact with and follow within Threads, and it will also be able to see who its users follow in the broader fediverse. And if Threads builds up anywhere near the reach of other Meta platforms, just this little slice of life would give the company a fairly expansive view of interactions beyond its borders.

“I am perhaps equal parts excited and apprehensive to see how things play out with Threads, but it is really underlining the beauty of the fediverse that you have every option and the opportunity to choose,” Schulman says. “If you like Meta and you want to be in there, great. Go join Threads, you’ll be happy there, and you’ll also have access to everything else. If you don’t want to be a part of Meta, but you’ve got friends or family that do or public figures or whatever, then fine. You can get an account on any number of other fediverse servers and then follow the people that you want. Or if you want nothing to do at all with Meta, then there are plenty of servers out there [that] have already announced that they're preemptively blocking Threads. So you can live that life, too.”

MOST POPULAR
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
SCIENCE
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
MATT SIMON

The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
CULTURE
The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
RAMIN SKIBBA

Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
CULTURE
Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
JOHN SEMLEY

A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
SCIENCE
A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
EMILY MULLIN

No matter who you throw your lot in with, an important concept is that the server you choose is still going to have access to your data, even though all the other servers won't. If Threads implements ActivityPub and you use it to interact with the fediverse, you’re choosing Meta as your server and everything that comes with that. If you run your own server, like Jane, you can retain full control. But if you’re somewhere in the middle and use a server run by someone else, you need to keep an eye out for future changes. Mastodon is currently a crowdfunded platform, but it’s largely unclear what the business model will be for decentralized services like Bluesky. And future pivots could mean that your server eventually implements more user-monitoring or data-tracking practices. Then it might be time to move on—a process made easier by the portability that's built into the fediverse, allowing you to switch servers while maintaining your connections.

If you’re a Twitter user, or used to be, you have already dealt with a service that makes dramatic changes and completely upends your expectations and trust. But the Twitter case study illustrates a crucial idea. From a data privacy perspective, the worst-case scenario is no worse in the world of decentralization, the best-case scenario is much better, and, for once, you get a say in where you end up.

Meta’s microblogging app is intuitive, has already been downloaded by millions of people, and has other advantages over Twitter’s would-be rivals.
Blue feather floating in front of a blue background

THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF Threads, Meta’s Instagram-Twitter hybrid, had been met with confusion and skepticism. Then, when it launched yesterday, 30 million people signed up within hours.

Threads, the latest of Meta’s copycat innovations, faces a long slog in its bid to topple Twitter as the microblogging platform of choice. It has jumped into a feeding frenzy for users that has grown increasingly heated since Elon Musk bought the platform last year. But Threads comes with big potential, thanks to its polished tech, built-in user base, and a reputation for better moderation that’s likely to please big-money advertisers.

The platform also arrives at a particularly weak moment for Twitter. Musk’s recent announcement that free Twitter accounts would, temporarily, only be able to view 600 tweets per day was met with derision. Such moves will likely further hurt advertising on the platform—worsening a crisis that’s been ongoing throughout Musk’s tenure.

It’s a perfect storm: Technical troubles at Twitter converging with a slow news week have set the stage for Threads. “Suddenly, you have something that’s improbable: Meta has gotten into microblogging and people are actually digging it,” says John Wihbey, a professor in the School of Journalism and Media Innovation at Northeastern University who has worked as a contracted consultant for Twitter.

Threads, which is closely linked to Instagram but is actually a different app, has a major advantage over other Twitter copycats—it already has a huge potential pool of users on Instagram, and those people can choose to follow accounts they already follow on Instagram as they come onto Threads.

With the backing of Meta, Threads has a team of engineers that volunteer-run networks like Mastodon can’t rival. People can also post Threads directly to their Instagram stories. And, according to a post yesterday from Instagram head Adam Mosseri, Threads will eventually have support for ActivityPub, the protocol behind Mastodon, which would let people take their followers to another service if they leave Threads or the app ever shuts down.

Threads can’t do all that Twitter can—yet. People need an Instagram account to sign up, and Threads is not available in the European Union, which has strict privacy standards that the app may not meet. The feed defaults to a mix of accounts people follow and a slurry of posts selected by an algorithm; there’s no direct messaging feature; and the feed’s order is algorithmic, not chronological. Threads doesn’t have a trending topics section, and the search feature seems to only bring up accounts, not specific topics or posts, which makes it initially less appealing for anyone following big news events. There are also no ads—yet.

But Threads had a mostly smooth launch and largely positive reception, aside from a slight hiccup when Zuckerberg’s own Threads failed to load this morning. Still, microblogging remains a risky bet, as social platforms focusing on it haven’t been consistently profitable. At the same time, Threads may boost Meta’s brand as Twitter’s reputation falters. And it’s a chance to capitalize on advertisers that have ditched Twitter.

After months of chaos at Twitter, many people are looking for something different—but most have yet to commit to a single platform, which is good news for Threads. “They’ve definitely got a fighting chance if all of their protections for communities and individuals are firmly in place,” says Tama Leaver, a professor of internet studies at Curtin University in Australia. “If Threads can displace Twitter’s current toxicity, it may well steal Musk’s crown.”

That also matters to brands, and by extension advertisers, who flooded Threads as it opened to users. Netflix and Spotify were there right away, as were news organizations. Instagram has long been brand-friendly, and Twitter is increasingly losing trust. “It’s a play for advertising,” Matthew Bailey, principal analyst of media and entertainment at consultancy firm Omdia, says of Meta’s venture into Threads. “It wants to pick up that exodus of Twitter advertisers. Developing this brand-safe environment is crucial.”
Other competitors haven’t killed Twitter, despite ongoing technical and ethical difficulties at the bird app. Decentralized Mastodon saw a surge of new users, but interest eventually waned, with active monthly users sitting at 1.7 million as of July. Bluesky has gotten attention, but it isn’t fully open to new users. There’s Post.news and Spill, too, though none of these has emerged as a clear victor, and Twitter continues to stumble along eight months after Musk’s takeover.

Instagram, and Threads by extension, has its own challenges. Instagram has struggled with harassment and hate speech, and it is still trying to shake its reputation for negatively affecting teens’ mental health. But its reputation is better than Twitter’s, which has seen hate speech increase since Musk took over. And it’s telling that Meta chose to link Threads to Instagram rather than Facebook, which has an older audience and a worse reputation for toxic political fighting.

But Meta has a mixed history when it comes to cannibalizing its competitors. Instagram Reels leveraged some of TikTok’s popularity, and Instagram Stories, a Snapchat copy, has become a key part of the app—although neither has killed the rival networks, which remain two of Meta’s top competitors for attention among younger generations.

MOST POPULAR
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
SCIENCE
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
MATT SIMON

The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
CULTURE
The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
RAMIN SKIBBA

Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
CULTURE
Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
JOHN SEMLEY

A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
SCIENCE
A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
EMILY MULLIN

Threads might be the shiny Twitter rival of the week, but Meta has a rotten record with projects outside its core apps. Its all-in bet on the metaverse hasn’t yielded the immersive world Zuckerberg envisioned, even when it added legs. In the past year alone, Meta has killed other offshoots, including Super (a Cameo copy), Facebook live shopping, and Neighborhoods (a Nextdoor clone). A podcast push also packed up shop earlier in 2022. And Meta followed Twitter in announcing a paid subscription tier that would come with verification and better features earlier this year.

And people don’t generally seek out Twitter and Instagram to meet the same needs. Twitter allows some nudity, while Instagram has barred it. Instagram is, at times, about aesthetics and positivity and personal updates—though it’s notorious for veering into toxic positivity and overly edited and carefully selected images. Twitter’s brand lies in snark, memes, and breaking news. It’s doubtful those two energies can merge seamlessly. “My take is it’s less about text versus photos and videos and more about what public conversations you want to have,” Mosseri wrote in a Thread about the platform’s purpose.

Threads might never be Twitter—but it might be a friendlier place for conversations. For now, most of the posts on Threads are about the platform itself. But it will have to hold attention past its launch to avoid being shuffled off into the Meta graveyard of failed imitators.



Here’s what personal data is collected by Meta’s Threads, as well as by Twitter, Bluesky, Mastodon, Spill, and Hive Social.

META'S LONG-AWAITED TWITTER alternative is here, and it's called Threads. The new social media app launches at a time when alternatives, like Bluesky, Mastodon, and Spill, are vying for users who are dissatisfied with Elon Musk's handling of Twitter's user experience, with its newly introduced rate limits and an uptick in hate speech.

Meta owns Facebook, Instagram, and WhatsApp, so the company’s attempt to recreate an online experience similar to Twitter is likely to attract plenty of normies, lurkers, and nomadic shitposters. Meta is working to incorporate Threads as part of the online Fediverse, a group of shared servers where users can interact across multiple platforms.

If you’re hesitant to share more of your personal data with a company on the receiving end of a billion dollar fine, that’s understandable. For those who are curious, however, here’s what we know about the service’s privacy policy, what data you hand over when you use Threads, and how it compares to the data collected by other apps.

Looking to further protect your privacy while using smartphone apps? For iPhone users, here’s how to set up and read your app privacy report. If you use an Android phone, here’s a bunch of settings worth checking out, including a privacy dashboard.

Threads
Threads (Android, Apple) potentially collects a wide assortment of personal data that remains connected to you, based on the information available in Apple’s App Store, from your purchase history and physical address to your browsing history and health information. Apple’s privacy labels for the App Store were first introduced in 2020. While the exact meaning of what’s collected remains murky, it's a decent gauge of how data collection varies between apps.

“Sensitive information” is also listed as a type of data collected by the Threads app. Some information this could include is your race, sexual orientation, pregnancy status, and religion as well as your biometric data.

Threads falls under the larger privacy policy covering Meta’s other social media platforms. Want to see the whole thing? You can read it for yourself here. There’s one caveat, though. The app has a supplemental privacy policy that’s also worth reading. A noteworthy detail from this document is that while you’re able to deactivate your Threads account whenever, you must delete your Instagram if you fully want to delete your Threads account.

Below is all the data potentially collected by Threads that’s mentioned in the App Store. Do you have the Facebook or Instagram app on your phone? Keep in mind that this data collection by Meta is comparable to the data those apps collect about you.

For Android users, the Google Play Store doesn’t have the same app labels as Apple. Take a look under Data Safety to see what data Threads wants to collect on Android.
Data Linked to You
Third-Party Advertising:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
FEATURED VIDEO


Cybersecurity Expert Answers Hacking Questions From Twitter

Developer's Advertising or Marketing:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content ( Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Analytics:

Health & Fitness (Health, Fitness)
Purchases (Purchase History, Financial Info, Payment Info, Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Audio Data, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Product Personalization:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
App Functionality:

Health & Fitness (Health, Fitness)
Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Payment Info, Credit Info, Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Other Purposes:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Bluesky
Looking for an app that collects less personal data? Bluesky (Android, Apple) is a buzzy Twitter alternative started by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey and managed by CEO Jay Graber. Bluesky uses the AT Protocol that it created. The app is currently invite-only, but it does not currently collect anywhere near as much information as Threads or Twitter.

For Bluesky, the data that’s linked to you is focused on app functionality, like remembering your email and user ID, or access to photos and videos on your device so you can post memes. Here’s where you can find more info about Bluesky’s privacy policy. Keep in mind the service is still new and adding features, so there will likely be changes as it evolves.

Below is all the data collected by Bluesky that’s mentioned in the App Store. (Remember that this is only for iPhone owners. If you use an Android smartphone, you have different app store labels that can be found under Data Safety.)

Data Linked to You
Third-Party Advertising:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Developer's Advertising or Marketing:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content ( Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Analytics:

Health & Fitness (Health, Fitness)
Purchases (Purchase History, Financial Info, Payment Info, Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Audio Data, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Product Personalization:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
App Functionality:

Health & Fitness (Health, Fitness)
Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Payment Info, Credit Info, Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Sensitive Info
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Other Purposes:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Financial Info (Other Financial Info)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Physical Address, Email Address, Name, Phone Number, Other User Contact Info)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Gameplay Content, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Data
Bluesky
Looking for an app that collects less personal data? Bluesky (Android, Apple) is a buzzy Twitter alternative started by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey and managed by CEO Jay Graber. Bluesky uses the AT Protocol that it created. The app is currently invite-only, but it does not currently collect anywhere near as much information as Threads or Twitter.

For Bluesky, the data that’s linked to you is focused on app functionality, like remembering your email and user ID, or access to photos and videos on your device so you can post memes. Here’s where you can find more info about Bluesky’s privacy policy. Keep in mind the service is still new and adding features, so there will likely be changes as it evolves.

Below is all the data collected by Bluesky that’s mentioned in the App Store. (Remember that this is only for iPhone owners. If you use an Android smartphone, you have different app store labels that can be found under Data Safety.)
Data Linked to You
App Functionality:

Contact Info (Email Address)
User Content (Photos or Videos, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Identifiers (User ID)
Data Not Linked to You
Analytics:

Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
App Functionality:

Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Mastodon
What if you want a social media app that doesn’t suck up all your personal data? Mastodon (Android, Apple) might be a good option for you. Originally launched in 2016 by Eugen Rochko, Mastodon uses a decentralized protocol that’s different from Bluesky, called ActivityPub. It’s part of the Fediverse of shared servers. Mastodon is not exactly a new pick; it has positioned itself for years as an alternative to Twitter. (Remember, 2023 isn’t the first time users have considered ditching Twitter for something new and exciting.)
Are you trying it out for the first time? Here’s a great guide to getting started on Mastodon. There’s a bit of a learning curve with this one.

Below is all the data collected by Mastodon that’s mentioned in the App Store.
Spill
Are you part of (or a fan of) Black Twitter and on the search for a new posting platform, preferably one that’s inclusive and voicey? Spill (Apple) is a Black-owned social media app that’s made with diverse communities in mind, specifically people of color. It was founded by Alphonzo “Phonz” Terrell and Devaris Brown, who both used to work at Twitter, and it launched earlier this year. Spill is not part of the Fediverse of shared servers.

Spill is currently invite-only, but you can sign up for the waiting list. While Spill does gather sensitive info, the other aspects of its data collection are not as extensive as Threads. Here’s the full privacy policy you can read over.

Below is all the data collected by Spill that’s mentioned in the App Store. It’s worth noting that Spill’s dev team is working on an Android app, but it’s not yet available to use.

Data Linked to You
Developer's Advertising or Marketing:

Location (Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data)
Sensitive Info
Analytics:

Location (Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data)
Sensitive Info
Product Personalization:

Location (Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
Contacts
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data)
Sensitive Info
App Functionality:

Location (Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
Contacts
User Content (Emails or Text Messages, Photos or Videos, Audio Data)
Sensitive Info
Other Purposes:

Contact Info (Email Address, Phone Number)
Hive Social
It’s a bit smaller than other platforms, but Hive Social (Android, Apple) is another contender for your attention span that’s particularly popular with gamers. This app is not part of the Fediverse. Nostalgic for the days when curated music would automatically play when a person visited your profile? This feature is one way Hive differentiates itself from Twitter, along with a built-in Q&A feature that lets your followers ask you questions (sometimes anonymously) that you can answer in posts to your feed. Want to give Hive a try? Check out our guide with tips for getting started.

The app collects information about you for functionality and analytics, but it’s not connected specifically to you. Learn more about what data the app uses by taking a look at its privacy policy.

Below is all the data collected by Hive Social that’s mentioned in the App Store for iPhone owners. (Have a Google Pixel or other Android device in your pocket? You can go to the Data Safety section in the app’s listing to see what data Hive collects.)

Data Not Linked to You
Analytics:

Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
User Content (Photos or Videos, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Identifiers (User ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
App Functionality:

Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
User Content (Photos or Videos, Customer Support, Other User Content)
Identifiers (User ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Other Usage Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
What About Twitter?
It may seem like Threads collects a ton of personal data. (Because it does!) For more context, let’s go over what Twitter asks for as well. Twitter (Android, Apple) keeps plenty of data that’s linked to users and used to track you, like your purchase history and browsing history. With that in mind, the app does not list “sensitive information” as one of the disclosed categories of data collection. Check out its full privacy policy for an in-depth breakdown.

Below is all the data collected by Twitter that’s mentioned in the App Store. (Escaped from Apple’s walled garden? Go to the Data Safety section of the Android app for Twitter to see what personal data could be collected, like your precise location and web browsing history.)

Data Used to Track You
Purchases (Purchase History)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address)
User Content
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data)
Data Linked to You
Third-Party Advertising:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address)
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data)
Diagnostics (Performance Data)
Developer's Advertising or Marketing:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address)
User Content
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data)
Analytics:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos, Audio Data, Other User Content)
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data)
Product Personalization:

Purchases (Purchase History)
Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Phone Number)
Contacts
User Content
Search History
Browsing History
Identifiers (User ID, Device ID)
Usage Data (Product Interaction, Advertising Data)
Diagnostics (Crash Data, Performance Data, Other Diagnostic Data)
Other Purposes:

Location (Precise Location, Coarse Location)
Contact Info (Email Address, Name, Phone Number)
Contacts
User Content (Photos or Videos)
Search History
Identifiers (User ID)
Data Not Linked to You
Third-Party Advertising:

Other Data
Developer's Advertising or Marketing:

Other Data
Analytics:

User Content (Emails or Text Messages)
Other Data
App Functionality:

Contact Info (Physical Address)
User Content (Emails or Text Messages)
Other Data


Want to reconnect with people and grow your clout on Threads? Here are a few tips to help you get started.

SO WHAT IF you had a billion followers on Twitter? Meta’s new app, Threads, is rapidly growing, with 70 million sign-ups in the first couple of days according to a tweet … I mean Thread post, from Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg. While the vibe on Threads is not for everyone (lots of brands/extremely Facebook), it can be fun to start over and try a new social media app at the same time as millions of other users.

Will Threads actually kill Twitter? Well first, the apps are not humans, so no one's dying around here. Second, the Threads app comes from the same company that went all-in for the metaverse, so let’s wait a bit before making any big longevity claims. Whether or not Threads sticks around, millions of early adopters are busy at work posting self-referential memes and hustling for followers on the new app.

Want to reconnect with people you interacted with on Twitter and do just a bit of clout chasing? Here’s a few tips to help you get started rebuilding your social media following on the Threads app (Android, Apple).

Cross-Post Multiple Times
OK, this sounds a little desperate, but it’s probably one of the best ways to stay in touch with your Twitter friends. Tweet a couple of times about signing up for Threads, and share the new handle where your friends can find you, if it’s different. Don’t be afraid to use memes and humor, as well as more straightforward pleas.

Link Your Instagram
Hear me out. Even though the following you built on Instagram is likely way different than the people you enjoy on Twitter, many early adopters with big followings on Threads are bringing their community (and blue checkmark) over from Instagram, which is owned by Meta. If you follow friends on Instagram, when you sign up for Threads, you'll get the option to follow all of your Instagram friends, if they have Threads accounts. (And if they don't have one now, you can auto-follow them if they create one later.)
Before you do this, know that once the accounts are connected, you are not able to fully delete your Threads account without nuking your Insta as well. It’s something the company may change in the future, but this is how it’s currently set up.

If you use your Instagram account, but don’t choose to follow the same people on Threads during the sign-up process, it’s possible to find that option again. Tap on your profile and then your follower count. After that, swipe over to the Following tab. At the top of the screen, tap See all to find people you know from Instagram.

Keep Your Account Public
If you want to keep your account more low-key, it’s possible to change the posts to private by going to your profile, tapping on the two lines in the top right corner, choosing Privacy, and then toggling the Private profile option to the right. For those who want to grow accounts beyond their immediate friend group, keeping your account set to public is the only way for posts to end up in the algorithmic feed.

Public or private, keep in mind that Meta collects personal information whenever you use the app. Here’s our breakdown of how the data collection on Threads compares to Twitter and other alternatives.

Reuse Your Best Bits
Yes, you may want to carve out a new online persona for Threads, but don’t be afraid to reuse some of your previous photos, jokes, and topics of discussion. As you figure out what kind of posts help build up the following you’re looking for on Threads, experiment by putting a little twist on what’s worked for you in the past.

Post and Post and Post
Don’t overthink it. If you are having a good time on Threads and want to attract more of a following, keep those posts flowing. Don’t be afraid to reply to posts that make you laugh or share something insightful. The party’s just starting, and users may be open to making new connections. (They likely want to grow their following, just like you.)

Worried that you’re spending too much time on the app? Visit your profile, and tap on the two lines in the top right corner. Go to Account, then Take a break. Threads can remind you to go touch grass after every 10, 20, or 30 consecutive minutes you spend on the social media app.
Meta promised to make Threads compatible with the decentralized protocol underlying Mastodon. Proponents of interoperable social media can’t agree whether to welcome or fear it.
DAYS AFTER META launched its new app, Threads, this month, a software engineer at the company named Ben Savage introduced himself to a developer group at the World Wide Web Consortium, a web standards body. The group, which maintains a protocol for connecting social networks called ActivityPub, had been preparing for this moment for months, ever since rumors first emerged that Meta planned to join the standard. Now, that moment had arrived. “I'm really interested to see how this interoperable future plays out!” he wrote.

Warm replies to Savage’s email filtered in. And then came another response:

“The company you work for does disgusting things among others. It harms relationships and isolates people. It builds walls and lures people into them. When that doesn't suffice, brutal peer pressure does … That said, welcome to the list, Ben.”
Meta’s embrace of ActivityPub, used by apps including the Twitter-like Mastodon, was bound to be a little awkward. The constellation of small apps and personal servers that currently use the protocol, known as the Fediverse, is marked by an ethos of sharing and openness, not profit-seeking or user bases denominated in the billions.

ActivityPub is designed to allow users of different apps to not only interact and view each others’ content, but also move their digital identity from one service to another. Mastodon, the largest app in the Fediverse, is open source and run by a nonprofit, and smaller Fediverse apps like PeerTube and Lemmy are often held up as a repudiation of the closed nature of services such as YouTube or Reddit. Corporations like Meta are typically held up as the enemy. No surprise that, despite appeals from ActivityPub leaders for civility when Meta arrived on the listserv, some couldn’t hold their tongue.

Weeks-old Threads already dwarfs the Fediverse, which has been around for more than a decade and recently peaked at about 4 million active monthly users. Some Fediverse fans see that imbalance as a win: Suddenly, the network could become many times more relevant. Others consider that view naive and expect Meta’s size to push the small world of apps built on ActivityPub in undesirable directions. Some have circulated a pact to preemptively block content from Threads’ servers from appearing on their own.

“The Fediverse community has been jolted into motion—due to fear and loathing of Meta, and also excitement,” says Dmitri Zagidulin, a developer who leads the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) group responsible for discussing the future of ActivityPub. The prospect of Meta joining the decentralized movement has people trying to spiff up their projects and prepare for the spotlight. “There are furious meetings. Grants being applied for. Pull requests. Pushes for better security,better user experience. Better everything,” he says.

Zagidulin is himself a member of a Mastodon server that operates as a social cooperative, where users collectively decide major decisions. They recently held a vote on whether to preemptively block Threads, a process known as defederation. The result: 51 percent in favor, 49 percent against.
That divide reflects different visions for the Fediverse’s future. One involves embracing Threads to bootstrap the network’s stagnant growth. The ideals of openness and giving users more control didn’t tempt many people to join platforms like Mastodon until Elon Musk’s chaotic takeover of Twitter sent many longtime users looking for new digital homes. Even then, the bump quickly went bust. Some users gave up after finding federation tools confusing compared to Twitter. Then came Bluesky, a competitor supported by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey that reflects many of the same principles but is developing a rival decentralized protocol to ActivityPub.

Amidst those challenges, Meta’s interest dangles the potential of the company’s vast resources and reach to inject new life into the Fediverse movement. “This is a clear victory for our cause,” wrote Eugen Rochko, CEO of Mastodon, in a blog post on the day Threads launched.
Others simply want Meta out. To Fediverse users like Vanta Black, the warm response from community leaders to Meta’s interest felt like betrayal. In 2017, as she navigated her gender identity, she found a home in small Mastodon communities where moderators and users intermingled and held shared values for how to filter out hateful posts. She fears the arrival of millions of Threads users will unleash volumes of content into the Fediverse that are impossible to manage.

This spring, after rumors that Meta was planning a project that would integrate with ActivityPub, Black launched the “Anti-Meta FediPact,” a pledge for Fediverse communities to defederate from the company’s future offering. So far, the pact has been signed by a few hundred admins, most representing smaller Fediverse groups. Others are having similar debates to Zagidulin’s group, part of a lively discussion about whether members of an “open” ecosystem should preemptively block new participants.
Black points out that there’s precedent: a collective effort in 2019 to block the far-right social network Gab after it began using Mastodon’s software. The effort was considered broadly successful at blocking Gab content from filtering into the Fediverse. Meta’s content moderation policies, as well as its role in human rights abuses and global conflicts, Black argues, put it in the same must-block bucket. She sees the hunger for growth expressed by some Fediverse leaders conflicting with what’s best for the community. “Success for the Fediverse to me is retaining what makes it the Fediverse now,” she says.

Johannes Ernst, a member of the W3C’s ActivityPub group, says he can sympathize with those who wish to defederate for reasons of personal safety. But at the same time, he can’t help but feel that attracting Meta realizes an elusive dream for the open protocol.
The Fediverse’s small size can feel intimate—but also isolating for people who want to connect with family and friends not interested in the arcana of distributed online services, or who want to build new Fediverse services to serve large user bases. Suddenly, rather than trying to build a network from scratch, they will potentially have access to more than a hundred million users. “It’s an entirely different conversation,” he says.

How Meta decides to implement ActivityPub in Threads will help determine the outcome of what could be the Fediverse’s big bang. “It’s not plug-and-play,” says Ernst. The company will have to choose how closely to allow Threads users to integrate with other Fediverse servers. That includes deciding how easily users can migrate their accounts and networks to other services, and whether to provide support such as tools that redirect followers to a user’s new home. Meta’s leaders will also have to decide what kinds of Threads content will be broadcast out into the Fediverse—including, potentially, the role of ads—and how users outside of Threads will be able to see or interact with it on their own platforms. Meta did not respond to a request for comment.
Given that Threads could at a stroke represent the majority of Fediverse users and content, those choices will be deeply felt by existing users of decentralized apps. And anyone building a Fediverse app could find themselves essentially forced to optimize sharing content with Threads users. Mastodon plays a similar role on the network right now because of its large relative size, Ernst says, but so far it has a good relationship and open dialog with other Fediverse developers. A giant for-profit corporation might not manage to do the same.

Meta executives told staffers last week that ActivityPub integration “is a long way off,” according to The Verge. There’s a history of large platforms being quick to announce their interest in the protocol but slower to implement any integration, Zagidulin says, pointing to Tumblr’s as-yet-unrealized announcement last year of ActivityPub integration. Meta itself has a fickle history with open protocols. A decade ago, the company briefly embraced XMPP, an interoperable messaging protocol, along with competitors like Microsoft. But the effort was quickly abandoned.

But conditions are different now. Government officials mulling how to regulate large tech platforms today often turn to the idea of requiring interoperability, says Georgios Petropoulos, a researcher at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy. Threads is not currently available in Europe, due at least in part to uncertainties related to the EU’s new Digital Markets Act and other regulations—especially rules related to how Threads user data will interact with data on other platforms, Petropoulos believes. The new EU rules also contain provisions on interoperability that are still being hashed out.

It’s logical, Petropoulos says, for Meta to work with a protocol that’s partly managed by W3C, a respectable global standards organization, and that has already attracted other mainstream platforms like Tumblr. But it’s too soon to know how seriously the Facebook parent will take interoperability.

In the meantime, users like Zagidulin and Black are already taking action in response to just the specter of Meta’s integration into—or engulfment of—the Fediverse.
Zagidulin’s co-op server is planning more votes to determine how exactly to proceed. With the community evenly split, he says, one scenario would be to split the community across two servers—one that communicates with Meta’s empire and one that doesn’t. Black isn’t so optimistic about managing the divide. “I’d prefer the status quo, rather than two castles where one is sunny and one is dark,” she says.
Mark Zuckerberg's choice to launch Meta's Threads app stands in stark contrast to Elon Musk’s recent moves to charge for data from X.
WHEN META DEBUTED its new Threads feature earlier this month, it was quickly dubbed “the Twitter killer.” Elon Musk, the owner of X (formerly Twitter), even threatened to sue Meta for what he called a “copycat” product.

Launched off the back of Instagram, also owned by Meta, Threads looks very similar to X. It's scrollable, text-based, and character-limited. But why, when X has been notoriously unprofitable, would Meta—which brought us the infamous “pivot to video” and has had its sights set on competing with TikTok—want to take on the platform? The answer may have to do with artificial intelligence.
Recent months have seen a veritable AI arms race, with tools like ChatGPT, Midjourney, Stable Diffusion, Copilot, Dall-E, and Google’s Bard all jockeying for users. As more companies invest in generative AI, they need lots of data to train their models. And that data needs to be generated by actual humans in order for the generative AI to appear, well, human. Platforms like Reddit and X are gold mines because they host millions of examples of user-generated content. Both companies have also historically made their data readily available, a boon for third-party developers and researchers. In 2020 alone, data from X contributed to more than 17,000 research papers. Models like ChatGPT and Bard were also trained on data from these platforms. But this has sparked bigger questions about how much user-generated data is worth, and what it should cost to access. Now, that data may not be readily available for long, just as every company, including Meta, is rushing to develop their own models.

Earlier this year, Musk announced that X would begin charging $42,000 a month for its API, pricing out nearly everyone that used it, particularly academics and researchers, for whom data from X was crucial for research into topics like disinformation. Later, the company said it would offer tiers of access priced at $125,000 and $210,000 per month. Not long thereafter, Reddit announced it would also start charging for its API. In an interview with The New York Times, Reddit CEO Reed Huffman acknowledged that the “Reddit corpus of data is really valuable” for training AI models but that the company didn’t feel the “need to give all of that value to some of the largest companies in the world for free.”

In the past several months, Musk has continued to crack down on access to X's data. In April, he tweeted that Microsoft had “illegally” used data from X to train its AI models (Microsoft is a partner with Meta and OpenAI, which created ChatGPT). A letter from X's lawyer alleged that the company had exceeded the allowed use of the data it drew from the platform. Then, last month, Twitter announced it would restrict the ability to see the site’s content without first logging in, and that to see more that 600 tweets per day, users would need to pay for Twitter Blue. Musk called it a “temporary emergency measure” to prevent what he called “data pillaging.” (XCorp, which owns X, filed a lawsuit shortly after against four unnamed defendants, seeking $1 million in damages for data scraping). As Musk has limited access to the platform, he has also launched his new xAI startup, which will be trained on data from X.

What does all this have to do with Threads? Meta, which gambled its future—and its name—on the metaverse, has fallen behind in its investment in AI. But last week, the company announced it would be making its large language model, Llama 2, open source, free for researchers and businesses alike (this also means, however, it won’t have some of the safeguards of ChatGPT, namely the ability to revoke access from users who violate the terms of use to generate, say, disinformation). Threads could bolster its efforts to get back in the AI game, just when X is no longer an option for companies seeking to harvest data.
While the company has troves of data from Facebook and Instagram, the amount of data needed to train large language models is enormous, and needs to be updated constantly to keep up with the way language changes. With X no longer making its data easily available, what better way to get equivalent user-generated data than by launching an X clone, especially as changes to the platform under Musk have led it to bleed users, and competitors like BlueSky and Mastodon have failed to fill the void?

The gamble on Threads could be an opportunistic move to undermine a smaller competitor, or an investment in creating a trove of X-like data that Meta can use as it develops its own generative AI products. But none of that matters if the service can’t hang on to users. The new app’s usership has plummeted from 44 million to 13 million following its launch, with brands seeming to be the most active entities. But in the wake of Musk’s new X rebrand announcement, perhaps the users that remain will be looking for a new place to hang out and shed their data. And Threads will be there waiting.
With big names like Wendy’s and Netflix, brand-on-brand chatter is shaping Meta’s new social media app. That could leave little room for people.
WHEN PREBIOTIC SODA brand Olipop joined Threads, it didn’t post about the flavors it comes in or its claimed nutritional benefits. “Can u guys pls engage with this thread so my boss tells me he’s proud of me,” Olipop wrote in an early post. “I’m proud of you Oli,” TGI Fridays posted back. “Thanks dad <3,” Olipop said.

This is the “casual, conversational, and unfiltered” approach Olipop’s social media team is using on Threads, says Sara Crane, a content strategist at Olipop. The soda company is testing Meta’s new platform by posting about “relevant cultural moments” rather than directly advertising. In doing so, it’s trying to strike a chord with the millions of people who have joined Threads since it launched on July 5. And Crane believes it’s working: Olipop now has 20,000 followers on Threads. Like with other social network debuts, “every social media manager is scrambling,” Crane says. “As time goes on, brands that are going to see long-term success are going to read the room, and speak the Threads language.”

And on Threads, the language is friendly, trendy internet slang—with a side of self-promotion and brand-on-brand chatter. It’s a tone that clashes with the snark and cynicism that made Twitter fun—but it’s also a relief from some of the toxicity and hate speech on the bird app that left people, and advertisers, jaded.

One of the weirdest things about Threads is that it’s being built backward. Most social networks grow organically; people find them and build communities, then the brands arrive. But Threads launched with many brands and influencers at the ready. That’s given Threads a strange vibe. When people signed up, they were greeted by a feed populated by Netflix, Spotify, and other big names. The brands have gotten off to a good start—Website Planet, a web development company, looked at 30 brand accounts on Threads and Twitter and found most were getting more engagement on Threads, even though they had fewer followers there.

The procession of brands on Threads isn’t being driven by an eagerness to find a solid Twitter alternative, but rather a rush to follow consumer eyeballs. “I don’t see it so much as brands are looking for a microblogging platform, but if their audience is, they want to be there too,” says Jen Jones, chief marketing officer for Commercetools, a digital commerce platform.
Threads’ early days included a lot of brands, celebrities, and influencers doing mic checks. And as brands experiment, there have been some odd interactions. Pizza Hut posted and deleted a Thread that contained a confusing and sexual meme about pizza crust. Pizza Hut did not respond to a request for comment.

Brands have tested the service with quippy jokes and memes. But there are tired posts, like “i am a cinnamon roll,” from Cinnabon. Crumbl Cookies, which has 263,000 followers, posted, simply, “hey,” followed by hundreds of cookie emojis. Wendy’s tried out memes and poked fun at Twitter, racking up 265,000 followers. All of this may be good and well for brands (Pizza Hut faux pas aside), but it’s not the kind of content that will keep people coming back to the app.

FEATURED VIDEO


Atomic Expert Explains "Oppenheimer" Bomb Scenes

MOST POPULAR
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
SCIENCE
An Abandoned Arctic Military Base Just Spilled a Scientific Secret
MATT SIMON

The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
CULTURE
The New Futurama Successfully Reboots the Show for 2023
RAMIN SKIBBA

Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
CULTURE
Oppenheimer and the Dharma of Death
JOHN SEMLEY

A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
SCIENCE
A One-Time Shot for Type 2 Diabetes? A Biotech Company Is On It
EMILY MULLIN

Among the deluge of brands, people are still trying to find their place and tone on Threads. But without a sophisticated search tool, hashtags, or chronological feed, it’s hard for Threads to fulfill its goal and become a place for “real-time updates and public conversations,” although updates are expected.

Threads doesn’t have ads just yet, but it could in time become an appealing place for advertising dollars. Instagram has a friendlier reputation for brands than Twitter, which has lost 50 percent of its ad revenue, according to Twitter owner Elon Musk. With advertisers and regular people fed up with hate speech and tech glitches on Twitter, Threads is in a strong position to gain both. But while its choice to not push politics and news could appeal to brands, it may lose the interest of people. And without people, a brand-friendly Threads won’t appeal to advertisers.

For influencers, Threads is another place to engage with followers—but like brands, they’re testing out the best ways to do so. YouTube star Mr. Beast already has 5 million followers on Threads, and said he would give away a Tesla to a random follower. Many have seen a portion of their audience already port over to Threads from Instagram. “Now it’s a matter of figuring out how to engage with them so that they keep coming back,” says Krishna Subramanian, cofounder and CEO of influencer marketing platform Captiv8. Threads may rely less on visual content, which could shift how influencers post or who becomes a top followed account there. “We’ll just have to see the type of content that gets created out here.”
There's a new episode coming up everyday on the excruciating drama of Twitter, Elon Musk, and everything that goes in their way.
In a dramatic turn of events, Twitter sent the Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg a letter, warning him that his newly launched app Threads could face a lawsuit from the huffy blue bird and its owner Elon Musk.

Threads is a Meta plan to replace the increasingly notorious Twitter after Musk’s $44 billion acquisition. Closely connected to Instagram, Threads activated over 30 million profiles and 95 million posts in the first 24 hours after its launch.


The stand-alone app has an interface similar to Twitter. Users can like, comment, repost, and share text-based posts. They can also choose what audience can reply to posts – everyone, people you follow, or only those mentioned in the post—another interesting feature reminiscent of Twitter. By logging into Threads using their Instagram account, users can post up to 500 characters long text posts and include links, photos, and videos up to 5 minutes in length.

Although the dazzling numbers associated with Threads are increasing every second, the app is far from smooth sailing.

The letter
In the letter obtained by Semafor, Twitter lawyer Alex Spiro accuses Meta of using Twitter’s trade secrets and intellectual property to build Threads.

According to Spiro, who’s also Musk’s personal lawyer, Meta has reportedly hired numerous ex-Twitter employees to work on Threads. This may be quite natural considering the substantial number of staff who were laid off after Musk’s acquisition. However, Twitter has raised concerns that these former employees still possess access to confidential information and trade secrets. Twitter alleges that Meta exploited this situation, assigning these employees to develop an app that’s a “copycat” of their platform, which is believed to be in violation of state and federal laws in the US.


As a response to the accusation, Meta’s communications director Andy Stone posted on Threads, saying that “No one on the Threads engineering team is a former Twitter employee — that’s just not a thing.”

A data privacy nightmare
iOS requires mandatory disclosures of any app that’s launched on the Apple App Store. And that’s how people started to notice something fishy about Threads’ privacy policy. The information showed that the app may collect highly sensitive information about users in order to profile their digital activity, including health and financial data, precise location, browsing history, contacts, search history, and other sensitive information.

For this reason, Threads could not be launched in the EU, where regulations state that a higher level of explicit consent is needed for sensitive information like health data to be legally processed.

It might be scary but certainly not surprising, considering Facebook made its way up by tracking and profiling web users to attract their attention with its behavioral advertising tools.

You are transparent on Threads
Unlike Twitter, where people shoot random thoughts all over the space, Threads was launched following the same stringent content guidelines that Instagram imposes on its users. But that has a lot to do with the characters of the two social media platforms. Users are more likely to connect with people they know in real life on Instagram, which translates to Threads. However, general Twitter users are almost completely anonymous and stay within a bubble of their interests. This anonymity makes Twitter users post with a mindset that’s more separated from their real life, especially with an almost nonexistent moderation for speech after Musk’s takeover.

Will the massive user base from Instagram stick to Threads? We won’t know until the end, and the show must go on.
