It looks like this cage fight may actually happen.

In a compelling turn in the tawdry saga of the Mark Zuckerberg versus Elon Musk cage fight, actor and former MMA fighter Georges St-Pierre has volunteered to train Musk for his day in the ring opposite Meta's CEO.

St-Pierre, widely considered one of the best MMA fighters in history, cheered on the SpaceX founder and Twitter dismantler, tagging Musk in a Twitter post where he volunteered to get involved in the fight prep. "I'm a huge fan of yours and it would be an absolute honor to help you and be your training partner for the challenge against Zuckerberg," he wrote.

"Ok, let's do it," Musk responded on Tuesday, in the wee morning hours. He followed his declaration with two fire emojis. The business tycoon, who by his own admission rarely exercises, clearly believes he can bring it to the cage opposite Zuckerberg.


All of this began when Meta introduced a new platform called Threads, which is meant to compete with Twitter. Chris Cox, Meta's chief product officer, made a dig at Musk's social platform during a company-wide meeting earlier this month when he mentioned conversations with "creators and public figures who are interested in having a platform that is sanely run."

When Musk flapped his feathers on Twitter at the perceived slight, it took no time at all before another user reminded him that Zuckerberg now trains in jiu-jitsu. "I'm up for a cage match if he is," the 51-year-old father of 10 typed back.


It would appear that Zuckerberg has been preparing for this fight, if not since the day he was born, at least for the last year. He's adopted a breathless jiu jitsu training regime under Dave Caramillo, as well as everything from running and surfing to military style endurance tests. Although there is some controversy regarding his alleged loss of consciousness in an early match, the tech giant did win silver and gold medals in his first Brazilian jiu-jitsu tournament last month.

Musk, for his part, told podcaster Joe Rogan last year that he has a background in Kyokushin karate, as well as judo, taekwondo and, conveniently, "Brazilian jiu-jitsu briefly" as a child growing up in South Africa.

Not worried, Zuckerberg screenshot Musk's challenge and posted it with the words "Send Me Location" emblazoned underneath. Musk then named the Vegas Octagon as his preferred sight for the likely duo's unlikely rendezvous.

Zuckerberg
Instagram / @zuck

A date for the altercation has yet to be specified, but if it does end up happening, you can bet it will be one of the most talked-about fights of the year.

