It's on like Donkey Kong between the two billionaires.

After his acquisition and subsequent mishandling of Twitter, there are probably quite a few people who wouldn't mind seeing billionaire Elon Musk get pummeled. And we just might get that chance, thanks to fellow billionaire Mark Zuckerberg.

Doing what he evidently does best, Musk took to trolling Zuckerberg earlier this week, responding to a Twitter thread about Meta's forthcoming competitor to the platform, which will reportedly be called "Threads." In a companywide meeting earlier this month, Meta chief product officer Chris Cox dissed Musk and his social media company, saying that they had been "hearing from creators and public figures who are interested in having a platform that is sanely run."

"I’m sure Earth can’t wait to be exclusively under Zuck’s thumb with no other options," Musk responded to the tweet. "At least it will be 'sane.' Was worried there for a moment."

When another user responded, warning Musk that they heard Zuckerberg "does jiu-jitsu now," Musk replied, "I'm up for a cage match if he is."


Zuckerberg, who has gotten really into MMA in recent years and follows a strict workout regime that includes military-style endurance challenges, made headlines in May after winning gold and silver medals in his first jiu-jitsu tournament. And it appears that he very much is up for a cage match with Elon Musk.

Responding to the SpaceX founder on his Instagram story on Wednesday evening, Zuck screenshot Musk's tweet, writing a succinct: "Send me location."

Zuckerberg
Instagram / @zuck

And sure enough, it didn't take Musk long to take the bait. Shortly after, he responded on Twitter, naming the Vegas Octagon. "I have this great move that I call “The Walrus”, where I just lie on top of my opponent and do nothing," he quipped in a follow-up tweet.


Whether or not Musk will make good on his challenge is another story. But it seems safe to say that Zuckerberg will. In multiple requests for comments from media outlets such as Verge and Variety, a Meta spokesperson simply (and somewhat ominously) said: "The story speaks for itself."

Standing 6'1", at least Musk has a height advantage over the five-foot-seven-inch Zuckerberg. And as Verge points out, he has also bragged in the past about being in "real hard-core street fights" when growing up in South Africa. But one also has to imagine that Musk hasn't engaged in hand-to-hand combat in quite some time, depending how accurate that story was in the first place.

In other words, if this fight does go down, it should be entertaining, to say the least. And it would be about time the billionaires gave something back to the people.