Both Zuckerberg and Musk are reportedly dead serious about the fight.

The bizarre beef between Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg has taken an even stranger turn. The dueling billionaires have been offered the Colosseum in Rome as the location for their impending cage match by the Italian government.

According to TMZ, which spoke to sources with "direct knowledge" of the situation, Italy's Minister of Culture reached out to Zuckerberg earlier this week, and both parties are apparently on board with the idea. "Some chance fight happens in Colosseum," Musk tweeted early Friday morning.


TMZ reports that Zuck's people passed on the invitation to UFC president Dana White, who in turn had his people contact the Minister. With both Zuckerberg and Musk evidently serious about this fight, the question at this point seems less of if it's going to happen, but when and where. 

This whole thing started last week when Musk, perturbed at Meta's plans to launch a competitor to Twitter reportedly to be called Threads, facetiously challenged Zuckerberg to a cage match in a tweet. But while Musk may have been shitposting, the Facebook co-founder quickly accepted the invitation, as he recently won gold and silver medals in his first jiu-jitsu tournament. And so far, Musk has not backed down.

Both men have reportedly been negotiating with White multiple times per day for over a week about making the fight happen. The biggest issue is the height and weight disparity, as Musk, 51, stands at six-foot-one and weighs in at over 200 pounds, while Zuckerberg, 39, is five-foot-seven and closer to 150 pounds.

However, it remains to be seen whether the fight will actually go down at the Colosseum. As TMZ points out, large events have not been held at the 2,000-year-old amphitheater in hundreds of years. The last time was in 2003, when Sir Paul McCartney performed inside the Colosseum for an exclusive charity show. But that was only for 400 people who paid up to $1,500 for a ticket.

We can only imagine how much tickets to a Zuckerberg-Musk fight would fetch.

