Threads is great, but the truth is, it won't really have all the cool people on it until BTS deigns to sign up for accounts. 

This writer — a card-carrying member of the BTS ARMY — has been waiting for hours for just one member of the boyband to sign up.

Hours later, and still nothing, not even from the group's official account.

That pain has somewhat been assuaged by the fun posts on Threads from Sam Riegel, Marisha Ray, and Liam O'Brien — cast members of Critical Role, a top Twitch stream this writer is also a big fan of. But BTS still isn't here.

Jimmy Fallon, who's joined Threads, said it best: we're patiently waiting. 
Twitter hasn't treated the group very well: It stripped the boys of their blue check mark, per Elon Musk's purge of the platform's legacy verified accounts.

But Threads likely won't get all members of the biggest boyband in the world on its platform. Two BTS members — Jin and JHope, are currently serving a mandatory period of national service in the South Korean military. And the band's youngest, Jungkook, deactivated his Instagram account a while back and barely used the app, to begin with, and having an Instagram app is essential to make the leap to Threads.

That makes four guys who might still sign up — plus the band's official account. But at press time, no one pulled the trigger and tried "Threading" their thoughts on Threads. 

RM, Suga, V, and Jimin are still active on Instagram.

RM, for one, often posts Instagram Story updates about CrossFit to his 44.6 million followers on the 'gram under the username rkive. Suga's been active on the platform too under the handle agustd, his stage name, blessing the BTS ARMY with post after post about his D-DAY world tour. And Jimin and V have graced us with the occasional fashion-forward snapshot from their fabulous lives on their Instagram accounts, j.m and thv. 

Tick tock, Mark Zuckerberg — Twitter currently has one thing you don't. And take it from me and the rest of the ARMY: Your social media platform can't be the best until it has BTS. 