date_published=July 03, 2023 10:31 p.m. PT
published_by=Muskaan Saxena
title=Threads: everything you need to know about Meta's Twitter rival
body=Meta’s Threads app has been building up hype in the last few months, and the Twitter alternative is now available for a lot of people around the world.
Since Elon Musk took over Twitter (and ruined it), we’ve seen a lot of similar apps come and go, with the likes of Bluesky and Mastodon gaining traction. However, we suspect that Threads will likely trump them all and gain a pretty solid user base straight from the get-go.
In fact, Threads has proved so successful, that over five million users signed up for it in the first few hours it was live. If you want to try it out yourself, you can head over to the Threads website, though the best way to use it is via the Android and iOS Thread apps.
If you've been reading a lot about Threads and aren't sure what it actually is, then we have you covered. On this page, we explain everything you need to know to get started on this promising new social media platform.
So, what exactly is Threads?
Meta confirmed earlier in the year that it was “exploring a standalone decentralized social network for sharing text updates," and explained that the team believes "there’s an opportunity for a separate space where creators and public figures can share timely updates about their interests.”
It’s no surprise that the company is basically taking aim at Twitter, and looking to take advantage of the growing number of disgruntled users that want the Twitter experience without being beholden to the increasingly bizarre whims of Elon Musk.
The concept is pretty straightforward, presenting a familiar enough interface that means it should likely be a smooth transition for Twitter refugees and new users alike. You can log in with your Instagram account and go through your existing follower list to choose exactly who you want to follow on Threads, hopefully avoiding an immediate cluttering of your news feed.