date_published=July 6, 2023 10:59 a.m. PT
published_by=Nelson Aguilar
title=Why You May Not Want to Sign Up for Threads, Meta's New Twitter Competitor 
body=Meta's Twitter rival, Threads, was released Wednesday night, with over 10 million signups in the first seven hours of the service launching on iPhone and Android. Millions more are expected to sign up in the coming days, but if you haven't just yet, one thing might dissuade you from joining Threads: If you change your mind, there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also deleting your Instagram account.
That's right. If you decide you no longer want to use Threads and want to permanently delete your account, you must delete the Instagram account you used to sign up for Threads. In this Instagram help page, you'll see that you do have the option to delete individual posts on Threads -- but there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also getting rid of your Instagram.
You do have another option, however, it's just not as permanent. If you do decide to join Threads, here's how to deactivate your account without deleting your Instagram.
If you want to learn more, check out everything you need to know about Threads and how Meta is using AI to organize your feeds on Instagram and Facebook.
Meta's Twitter rival, Threads, was released Wednesday night, with over 10 million signups in the first seven hours of the service launching on iPhone and Android. Millions more are expected to sign up in the coming days, but if you haven't just yet, one thing might dissuade you from joining Threads: If you change your mind, there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also deleting your Instagram account.
That's right. If you decide you no longer want to use Threads and want to permanently delete your account, you must delete the Instagram account you used to sign up for Threads. In this Instagram help page, you'll see that you do have the option to delete individual posts on Threads -- but there's no way to delete your Threads profile without also getting rid of your Instagram.
You do have another option, however, it's just not as permanent. If you do decide to join Threads, here's how to deactivate your account without deleting your Instagram.
If you want to learn more, check out everything you need to know about Threads and how Meta is using AI to organize your feeds on Instagram and Facebook.
If you don't want to delete your Instagram profile, you can temporarily deactivate your Threads account
When you sign up for Threads, you only have the option to log in with your Instagram account. As you flesh out your profile, you use Instagram to import your profile photo, bio and links, and you can follow the same accounts you follow on Instagram in one fell swoop -- making Instagram and Threads intrinsically linked.
So if you're hesitant about joining Threads, you can still step back and not delete your account. Instead, you do have the option to individually deactivate your Threads profile. Instead of permanently deleting your profile and data, deactivating hides your Threads profile, posts, comments and likes from everyone else, until you decide to return.
To deactivate your Threads account, launch the Threads application, tap the profile icon on the bottom-left and then go to Account > Deactivate profile. You must hit the black Deactivate Threads profile button to confirm. At the bottom of the page, you'll see a notice that says, "This will not affect your Instagram account."
Want to check out more about Instagram? Here's how to fix low-quality videos on your Instagram feed and how to develop a healthier relationship with Instagram.
Wish Granted: Threads Just Added a 'Following' Tab to Your Feed 
Here's how to use the new feature that lets you restrict your Threads feed to only chronological posts from people you follow. 
Threads, Instagram's answer to Twitter -- now known as X -- has added a Following tab, allowing you to only see posts from people you follow in chronological order.
A Threads user asked for the feature on Friday and, on Tuesday morning, Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Threads' parent company, Meta, responded, "Ask and you shall receive."
"Threads started rolling out an option for a chronological feed of only people you're following," Zuckerberg posted on his broadcast channel on Instagram.
The Following tab started appearing on both iOS and Android versions of Threads at about the same time, though it's not yet available to all users.
Here's how the Following tab works and what other new features have been added.
For more on Threads, find out why you might not want to sign up for the app and why Elon Musk is reportedly threatening legal action against it.
What is the Following tab on Threads?
When Threads launched on July 5, user feeds were populated with posts from other users and brands, regardless of whether you followed them or not.
Now, members who have the Following option can get a chronological feed featuring only posts from people you've chosen to follow, with no "suggested" posts.
How to access the Following tab on Threads
Threads still defaults to the "For You" feed, so to make the Following feed appear or disappear, you need to tap on the home icon on the bottom left of the app or the Threads logo on top.
It reverts to "For You" mode if you close the app so, for now, you'll have to repeat this every time you open it.
If tapping the icon doesn't change your feed, Following hasn't been added to your version yet.  
What other features has Threads added?
According to Zuckerberg, Threads has also added a translation feature. You can translate a post by tapping a button on the bottom right. 
In an update for Threads for iOS on Monday, Apple teased that, "new features [are] coming."
Instagram head Adam Mosseri has promised several other highly prized features are "on the list" for Threads, according to Forbes, including hashtags, increased search functionality, editable posts, full desktop mode and the ability to limit who can reply to your posts.
How to sign up for Threads
You need an Instagram account to join Threads. If you have one, launch the Threads app and select the Instagram profile you want to make a Threads account for. 
Then add your name, biographical info and any links you want to show on your Threads profile. If you want to just duplicate your Instagram profile, you can also just hit the Import from Instagram button.
Then you'll want to choose the accounts you want to follow. You can select accounts you follow on Instagram one by one or hit Follow all to follow all your Instagram friends. 
