date_published=Thursday 6 Jul 2023 2:28 pm
published_by=Katherine Fidler
title=We tried Instagram’s sister app Threads. Twitter should be worried
body=Will no one think of the poor social media editors? Here we are, another day, another platform for them to manage.
They can blame the one who basically started it all, Mark Zuckerberg, because Threads, Meta’s rival to Twitter, has landed.
And for perhaps the first time, the title rival is justified. 
Many have tried to steal Twitter’s crown as king of the social media jungle, but most were quickly lost, caught in the vines and fighting for any scraps the little blue bird dropped while soaring above the trees.
But Threads has been helicoptered in, delivered with the backing of tech behemoth Meta and a ready-made audience of literally billions courtesy of its sister app Instagram.
I’m one of them, and early this morning made the switch. Because it was incredibly easy. 
Having pre-ordered the app and woken up to a notification telling me it was now live and kicking, within seconds I was set up and ready to go – having blithely agreed to all the Ts and Cs without a thorough read first, I’m ashamed to say. (Yes, I watched Black Mirror, no, I haven’t learnt anything from it, sorry Charlie.)
With a couple of taps, my profile is complete, and I’m set up to automatically follow anyone I already follow on Instagram as soon as they join too.
Notifications are immediately switched on, obviously, because I need to know what’s happening everywhere, all the time. 
Once in the app, unsurprisingly, it looks a lot like Twitter. And Instagram. Their love child perhaps. A vertical feed, posts of up to 500 characters, plus pictures or video if you’re so inclined – although no gifs yet. Underneath is the option to like, comment on, repost and share posts with symbols familiar to anyone who even occasionally uses social media.
To sidestep any legal issues, that’s not accusing Meta of plagiarism, even if they have previously enjoyed rather a lot of success by following others’ leads. Think Stories, think Reels, additions to Instagram offering an alternative to SnapChat and TikTok.
Threads isn’t the first new platform to be formed in Twitter’s image, and in Meta’s defence, there’s little sense in trying to reinvent a (once) winning formula. A wholesale redesign to provide something materially different to Twitter would make little commercial sense, and as advertised, it is essentially Instagram repurposed to focus on text before images. 
Plus people hate change. 
Some people, myself included, also hate Twitter’s ‘For You’ feed, and initial scrolling through Threads reveals the first negative. The feed is littered with people I don’t follow, and possibly never would.
Food news from Grub Street? An Arsenal fan channel? Does the algorithm know me not at all? Oh wait, Fall Out Boy. Maybe it does a bit.