Those who believe that the only war tech whizzes can fight are the ones online — may be forced to eat their words. When Twitter CEO Elon Musk first threw down the gauntlet; challenging Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg to a cage fight, many rolled their eyes at the theatrics between the two tech billionaires. But with Zuckerberg launching the Threads app — in direct competition with Twitter — it seems like the battle may be heading to the rings. And Zuckerberg’s already delivered the first punch.

However, Musk seems to be on a mission to settle scores since Twitter has threatened legal action against Meta for hiring former Twitter employees who helped the latter launch Threads. According to Semafor, lawyer Alex Sipro, on behalf of Twitter, accused Zuckerberg of getting on board ex-Twitter staff who have “access to Twitter's trade secrets and other highly confidential information.”

It all started in June, when entrepreneur Marion Nafwal tweeted about Instagram releasing the text-based social media network Threads as a Twitter rival. Musk, who’s received much flak for changing the platform ever since he took over Twitter last October, responded instantly with: “up for a cage match if he (Zuckerberg) is lol.”

What may have been brushed aside as one of Musk’s many outrageous tweets gained heat when Zuckerberg reportedly shot back, posting a screenshot of Musk’s tweet with the caption “send me location” on his Instagram. One can’t miss the reference to the catchphrase of Khabib Nurmagomedov, one of the U.F.C.’s most celebrated athletes.

While any details regarding the physical match — date, location and well, if it really is happening, is yet to be officially confirmed… we know one thing forsure: things are getting weird in the tech world. But you don't want to miss out on the action. Here's everything about the Elon Musk vs Mark Zuckerberg cage fight.

Elon Musk vs Mark Zuckerberg: All about the cage fight between the two tech titans

What prompted the cage fight?

We don’t know if there will be a real, physical cage fight between the two tech titans, but one thing’s for sure: it’s generating enough buzz around two of the biggest social media platforms of our times — Twitter and Meta. This works especially in the latter’s favour, considering its recent launch of Threads as a direct competitor to Twitter, that’s dominated the space hosting public conversations on social media for over a decade now.

Threads, introduced as a clear spin-off of Instagram, allows its built-in Instagram user base (no need to start from scratch here!), the option to share texts and images, and engage in real-time conversations — much like Twitter. However, Twitter has changed significantly since Musk’s messy takeover last year, with hundreds leaving the platform. Zuckerberg seems to have struck when the iron was scalding hot; introducing a “sanely run” competitor to Twitter at a time when most users seemed unhappy with its Musk-led revamped version.

Clearly, Musk didn't take very well to the news.

Will the fight actually take place?

When the New York Times spoke to Dana White, President of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (U.F.C.), he confirmed that Musk, Zuckerberg and himself — aided by advisers — were all inching in favour of the fight. In short, even though there’s no guarantee that the fight will take place, the “broad contours of an event are taking shape”, he told the newspaper.

Where will it take place?

Dana White told The New York Times that the preferred location for the fight would be Las Vegas, although that would require approval from the Nevada Athletic Commission. However, Musk excited a legion of the spat-following social media users on Thursday, when he tweeted that Ground Zero may be the Roman Colosseum — history’s legendary battleground.

However, the Ministry of Culture in Italy had cleared up a rumour set ablaze by TMZ that their minister of culture had gone out on a limb and offered the Colosseum to Zuckerberg for the big fight. “Even if the news is tasty it is unfounded,” the ministry statement read, as reported by The Verge.

Are Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg trained for the fight?

A world-famous brawl between two of the richest men in the world is certainly a sight to behold… if it happens that is… but are Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg equipped to lock horns? Musk is 52, Zuckerberg: 39. Musk is 70 pounds heavier than Zuckerberg, who’s trained in jiu jitsu, a popular mixed martial arts form, and recently won two medals in a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu tournament in Redwood City, California.

Zuckerberg reportedly kickstarted his jiu jitsu training in his garage (the haven for tech entrepreneurs) in 2021; building a “mini academy” with a circle of friends. In June, he created a personal record for completing the “Murph Challenge” — which requires one to carry out a series of pull-ups, push-ups, sprinting through multiple miles and do hundreds of squats while wearing weighted, military-grade body armour.

On the other hand, Musk tweeted that he “almost never works out” other than picking up his kids and throwing them into the air. He followed this up with another barb: “I have this great move that I call ‘The Walrus’, where I just lie on top of my opponent and do nothing.”

However, Lex Fridman, a famous podcaster, recently posted photos of training in judo with the Twitter CEO and UFC champion Georges St-Pierre. Fridaman had also trained in jiu jitsu with Zuckerberg.

Who will emerge the victor in the Musk vs Zuckerberg cage-fight, should it happen? Guess we’ll have to wait and find out.