I often think about how we have dishonoured the noble pursuit of bloodsport through years of decency, decorum, and health and safety. The Romans had gladiatorial to-the-end combat, tigers on hand for if it went on too long, and death races where heroic generals got stomped to death by horses. Can you imagine what an incredible stag do that would make, in the baking sun? You and 20 lads called Tom, welts of red sunburn across all your foreheads, a beer snake writhing from one end of the stadium to another, doing a “Sweet Caroline” chant while someone died? That would be incredible, that would be amazing. But no, no. Instead, we have ‘influencer boxing’ in an air-conditioned arena, nobody caring who wins or loses.

The latest round of this is: sunscreen-abuser Mark Zuckerberg and tunnel-inventor Elon Musk, two tech billionaires who exist along the same long spectrum of nerdy and cringe, have agreed to fight each other in a cage match. This won’t actually happen, for various reasons – the aforementioned health, and safety; the very real threat to stock prices for the companies of Meta and Tesla should one of their founder-CEOs lose, or, worse, be captured in 4K in front of millions of people toplessly succumbing to a chokehold. There's also the fact that everything Elon Musk has said for the past ten years has been a strange joke without a punchline – when he says “up for a cage fight”, “Vegas Octagon”, he doesn’t actually know what he’s saying. He’s sleeping under a desk at Tesla HQ and is online 25 hours a day. He doesn’t know where he is or what he’s doing. He could be floating on a yacht outside one of the Maldives with a spare Pussycat Doll and the planet’s greatest masseuse. Instead he’s spending ages and ages trying to get a new Discord emote to work how he wants it to. The man is squandering the infinite possibility of wealth, and losing in combat to Mark Zuckerberg would be yet another example of that.

Do I want to see this happen? Eh, I do and I don’t. On the one hand: by all accounts, Mark Zuckerberg is incredibly adept at jiu-jitsu, and also has the blank-behind-the-eyes chilling stare that you only really get with America’s best serial killers, and I would love to see him dismantle Elon Musk – a man I have only ever learned anything about under duress – piece-by-piece, trapped in a cage, while his acolytes watch on in horror. His fingers are broken, his spine’s inverted. Grimes is posing courtside, draped across a basketball player. Like: if they streamed that on YouTube, would I watch it? Probably, yeah. It depends what time it’s on. I’ll probably see all the fatal moves in .GIF form in the morning, anyway, so it doesn’t really matter if I stay up for it.

On the other hand: no, I very much don’t want to see Mark Zuckerberg grapple Elon Musk in a cage match, even if he pulls his eyes out, because I am sick of watching people with social cachet disgrace combat sports with slickly boring exhibition matches. Has there ever been a good influencer fight, ever? There has not. Logan Paul landed about one punch on a mid-forties Floyd Mayweather Jr., who went on to make another few million out of sort-of sparring Deji. I will admit with shame I watched Jake Paul vs. Tommy Fury, but that was mainly because I wanted to see what sort of commotion John Fury would cause if his son lost (the top would’ve have gone, that’s the first thing that would have happened. Then he would have done something so manic it would have strained Western relations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, possibly forever). British OnlyFans girls seem to be constantly training for three-round undercard bouts with each other then talking about them on neon-lit video podcasts that in turn litter my Instagram Explore page. It’s a self-fulfilling economy, sure, but it’s not actually an entertaining one. Fighting used to mean something. It used to mean: I’m mad, and I’m hard, and I want to prove I’m the maddest hardest person who weighs my weight or thereabouts in the entire world. Now it’s just something the Sidemen can talk about on Twitch.

I recently discovered YouTube ‘Streetbeefs Scrapyard’, and it’s made me fall in love with violence again. The – as the website has to stress, “LEGAL” – Washington-based fighting organisation is basically a homemade octagon in someone’s garden and everyone who fights there does so because they started doing a bit of boxing training in the gym eight months ago and have a roaring, ancient, warrior’s need to express that energy somehow. You see some really formless scraps – a lot of panting, and grappling, and the quiet squeaking sound of trainers on plastic – but they’re fighting because they have a need to fight, a need to prove something (more to themselves than anyone watching), and every small bout feels more genuine than an all-day press conference preceding a five-round stadium fight where Big John has been hired to turn up and say “bosh”. Bridled properly, human violence is phenomenally entertaining. I’m not sure Mark Zuckerberg emotionlessly choke slamming Elon Musk will really hum the right notes.