By now if Twitter were a real bird, it would be convulsing on the side of the road with half of its feathers gone, and you'd be wondering whether to call the RSPCA or, more humanely, bash it out of its misery with a rock. Since Elon Musk bought it for a Monopoly money sum of many billions last year, everyone's love-to-hate-it social app has been stripped apart, its reputation mangled and death knelled myriad times.

The latest gaff came over the weekend, when Musk announced a “temporary” limitation on the amount of tweets one can view in a day — 6,000 for the Verifieds, 600 for the (cooler) Plebs, since bumped up to 10,000 and 1,000 respectively — to “address extreme levels of data scraping and system manipulation”. Musk blamed this on tech firms big and small scooping data, ie. tweets, to train their AI models. Jargon aside, the effect was immediate and obvious: the Extremely Online begged for invites to exclusive rival platform Bluesky like Titanic passengers jostling for space on lifeboats, and a renewed flurry of hashtags apocalyptically declared the end of Twitter as we know it.

Musk didn’t do this out of benevolent care for our collective mental health — why he does anything is one of modern life’s great mysteries — but it seems to me we’re snubbing an inadvertent gift. Yes, Twitter has become an integral part of the digital ecosystem, providing a platform for malnourished culture journalists and European sex bots alike to hock their wares, or a way to speak truth to power by way of becoming Ron DeSantis’ number-one reply guy. We used to go to bed and jot our thoughts into private diaries, but now we chuck them out publicly, half-considered and under-cooked, which is great until you have the terrible take of the day and you’re stuck against the wall, to be dunked on in the QTs by thousands of Zillennials who are weirdly overprotective of rich people they’ve never met. We all complain about how hideous this is, yet we stick about. Jemima Kirke’s character in Girls had an easier time getting off coke, hence why we rained junkie hell as soon as Musk decided to limit our intake.

The question is, if we’re so addicted, why won’t we just stump up the cash for a full, uncut hit of Twitter? It’s simple: rejecting paid-for verification has become a way to flip the bird at the dealer we so disdain. At one point, as well as distinguishing Obama from the faux-bamas, the blue tick was something like a knighthood for terminally online bloggers from Brooklyn or Hackney. Post-Musk, with the Legacy Verifieds — those who were anointed before it became a monthly prescription — stripped of their medals, it has become a grand statement of virtue to snub it.

Then there’s the fact it’s just a bit cringe to pay eight quid a month for an app that ex-footballers use to spout conspiracy theories about the deep state, or film nerds treat exclusively as a platform for Barbenheimer shitposting. With Musk, we’re playing a game of cringe chicken: “let anyone buy a badge and we’ll quit,” we say, and then don’t. “The ‘for you’ timeline? Not on our watch!” In truth we should be taking our sheer horror at all of this as a warning sign that, yes, we are posting too much, and maybe an intervention — even an unintended one — is what we need.

We all know, alas, that we’ll just keep at it with our posting and scrolling, rationed or otherwise. It'd be easy for me to rag further on the digital refugees scrambling to find new online abodes — be it Bluesky, Instagram or Facebook — if I wasn't in their number. But there's been a certain bliss in that execrable error message, “rate limit exceeded,” that  reminds me of that bit in The Simpsons when all the kids went outside instead of watching the shit new-look Itchy and Scratchy. There was a time, you remember, when Twitter wasn't the ubiquitous attention-stealer it is to many of us nowadays. There's a whole world out there, grass to touch, air to breathe, and less anonymous pop stans to send you death threats. The cap will never stick. But maybe it should.