Meta launched Threads, a new app that offers features similar to Twitter. Threads allow users to share texts and images, engage in real-time conversations, and directly compete with Twitter.

Twitter is slowly seeing a reduction in its users due to concerns regarding its new policies under the new owner, Elon Musk. At a time when Twitter's user base is slowly declining, Threads is expected to gain prominence. The company's chief, Mark Zuckerberg, says ten million users signed up on the Threads app in its first seven hours after its launch.

"The vision for Threads is to create an option and friendly public space for conversation," Mark Zuckerberg, the Meta CEO, said after the launch. "We hope to take what Instagram does best and create a new experience around text, ideas, and discussing what's on your mind."

The platform's interface resembles a standard Instagram comment section while offering the full functionality of Twitter. This includes the ability to respond to posts and repost them. Each post can contain a maximum of 500 characters, along with links. Users also have the option to attach up to 10 photos or videos that are no longer than five minutes in duration. Verified Instagram accounts will retain their blue badge on Threads.

When you join Threads and return to your Instagram profile, you will see a unique Threads badge displayed in your bio. This badge is a temporary indicator to inform your followers about your presence on the Threads app, allowing them to follow you there easily. Threads also have a few features that you don't find on Twitter. Know about them below.

Check out 6 key differences between Threads and Twitter

1. You need an Instagram account to use Threads
While you do not need to be a user of any other app to use Twitter, you need to have an Instagram account to use Threads. Users can easily register for the app by leveraging Instagram's existing account system. If you already have an Instagram account, you can seamlessly transition to the new app, as your username and other relevant information will be automatically transferred.

2. Character count
Threads will have a character count limit of 500. In comparison, unverified Twitter users have a maximum limit of 280 characters. Twitter offers a paid feature for $8 per month that allows subscribers to increase their character limit to 25,000, but Meta has not yet introduced a similar option.

3. Exploring the app
One of the key features of Twitter is that it presents to you everything that is trending, with the help of hashtags. You will also find a different section on Twitter where all the trending hashtags appear. In contrast, on Threads, the current way to explore content is by scrolling through the home feed.

4. Video duration
On Threads, users, including unverified ones, can post videos up to five minutes in length. However, on Twitter, users without the verified blue badge can post videos with a maximum duration of two minutes and 20 seconds.

5. You cannot view the list of likes
On Twitter, you can view the names of the people who have liked a particular tweet, But on Threads, you cannot view other people's likes.

7. No ads on Threads
At least so far, no ads have been seen on Threads. On Twitter, you can see ads.