You know it’s bad for Elon Musk when people are genuinely excited about jumping back into bed with Mark Zuckerberg. This morning, Meta – the social media app whose greatest hits include the democracy-threatening nightmare that is Facebook and the world’s most expensive game of Second Life – launched Threads, its wholesale rip-off of Twitter. People are hyped! Celebrities are already porting their Instagram accounts over; the brands are already back on their bullschtick. Meta has reportedly spent millions on their latest superfake, and it shows: the app is as slick as you’d expect from a company that has spent the last decade refining the art of buying out or straight up plagiarising every rival social media platform that dares raise its head.

Seven million users signed up to Threads in the first 10 hours, making it already the likely largest of the many Twitter clones to have launched since Musk’s takeover in 2022: T2, Bluesky, Post, Mastodon, and the rest. Already, Zuckerberg has postulated that Threads might eventually have a billion users. (Just post the Social Network gif, you coward!) For any other business leader, such lofty aims might be seen as maniacal. But this is Meta, a company that boasts three billion users and currently has a market cap in excess of $750 billion. We’ve come to expect as much from a guy who reportedly idolises the Roman emperor Augustus – as in, the guy who dismantled Roman democracy and instilled himself as Caesar, murdering and enslaving his enemies in the process – so much he named his own daughter August.

Before we all embrace yet another place to shitpost away our boredom, let’s take a moment to marinate in the fact that somehow our lord and saviour of social media in 2023 is the same company it feels like just yesterday was being hailed by its own former employees as a threat to democracy; one that has been fined billions for illegally harvesting user data; that is in a dispute with an entire continent over flagrant breaches of EU laws; and whose past list of sins range from allegations of massive tax avoidance to allegedly enabling the organisation of an actual genocide.

It’s worth taking a moment to try and understand how funny this all is. Since Musk took over, Twitter has seen an explosion in spam, scams, and hate speech, and an exodus of blue-chip advertisers, leading to reports that Twitter can’t pay many of its bills. Musk’s roll-out of Twitter Blue has been so hilariously bungled that he literally can’t give it away.

The one winner from Musk’s midlife crisis might be Zuckerberg, a man whose catastrophic leadership at Meta of late recently led to it laying off 11,000 workers; last year Meta’s VR arm alone lost more than twice as much money than Twitter makes in annual revenue.

As a business venture, Threads only kind of makes sense; Twitter has never been a particularly good business, at least by Zuck’s standards. What it is incredible at is dictating the global conversation, to a degree Instagram or Facebook never really have, and as a result Threads really only makes sense if viewed through the lens of Zuck’s Augustine ambitions. It is impossible to overstate the extent to which almost everything you read, hear, and watch in 2023 is influenced by Twitter. It’s where the politicians are, where social activism is, and it has so fully captured the attention spans and free output of the media for so long that it is almost impossible for most of us to even imagine leaving.

This is what Musk is relying on, and what Threads and its ilk are up against: Twitter’s sunk-cost fallacy. Many Twitter users have spent years – 14, in my case – building followers, and learning to monetise their attention. Twitter has built whole careers; even as the company itself has profited from goading its users to generate work for free. (This is Twitter Blue’s fundamental flaw: while TikTok, Youtube and Instagram understand that the value of social media comes from the creativity of its power users, Musk seems to think that what people value is Twitter itself.)

It says a lot that almost all anyone can talk about on Threads so far is Twitter. The same has been true, in my limited experience, of Mastodon and Bluesky and the other Twitter clones. In all of those cases, except perhaps Mastodon, the excitement has rarely lasted longer than a day or two, as all but the most ardent users realise that they really can’t be bothered to start afresh.

That might change with Threads, partly due to the sheer scale, and partly due to how simple and pleasurable the new app is to use: it’s like Twitter, just nicer. Most of your favourite famous people are there, along with the chronically online crowd. Whereas Bluesky follower counts are often in the single digits, Threads can pull in your Insta followers. What’s more, the kind of people who were never on Twitter but were on Instagram – hundreds of millions of people – can easily carry their audience to Threads. Scale has never been more achievable.

The question is whether Threads can do more than dupe old Twitter, and become somewhere people actively want to spend time. Is being a nicer Twitter enough, if your audience is still smaller? Will people eventually tire of having their feed co-opted by beautiful people? (Mark: put in a Following Only feed!)

Honestly, what is striking about Threads – even though it’s only day one – is how joyless it feels already. Unlike TikTok or even BeReal, Threads doesn’t give you the heady thrill of discovering something new. Instead, it feels a little like moving house. Anxious. Stressful. There’s more space, but you don’t know anyone.

Maybe Threads will dethrone Twitter; maybe Zuckerberg will even literally deliver the knockout blow to Elon Musk’s ambitions. Maybe – we can dream – it’ll be none of those, and instead we might finally realise a decentralised social network run by kind-hearted moderators out there in the ether. Or perhaps the entire idea of Twitter, and that kind of social media, is now moribund – too corrupted by malign influence, scam artists, and disingenuous operators to ever get back the feeling it once had.

For my part, I’ve accepted that it’s unlikely that I’ll ever quit Twitter. I’m an addict. Institutionalised. As its utility declines, I’m using it less and less, but my distaste with Musk’s ethics has not left me to abandon it, which probably tells you a lot about me. Do I miss the old Twitter? Sure. Do I want to spend the next decade doing the whole thing all over again, just to help fund the next billionaire’s Torment Nexus? Not really.